components/grid/columns/menu.md, before:

---
title: Column Menu
page_title: Grid - Column Menu
description: Use the Column Menu for the Grid
slug: grid-column-menu
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,column,columns,menu
published: True
position: 20
---

# Column Menu

The Grid allows you to setup a menu for it's columns. It enables you to perform high-level customization like [sorting]({%slug components/grid/features/sorting%}), [filtering]({%slug components/grid/filtering%}), [showing or hiding]({%slug grid-columns-visible%}) columns and [freezing or unfreezing]({%slug grid-columns-frozen%}) them.

In this article:
* [Basics](#basics)
* [Notes](#notes)
* [Features](#features)
    * [Column Chooser](#column-chooser)
* [Examples](#examples)

## Basics

To enable the column menu set the `ShowColumnMenu` parameter of the `<TelerikGrid>` tag to `true`. This will enable the menu for each column of the Grid.

>caption Enable the column menu for all Grid columns. Basic example.

````CSHTML
@* Set the ShowColumnMenu parameter to true *@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" 
             Pageable="true"
             PageSize="5"
             Width="700px"
             FilterMode="@GridFilterMode.FilterMenu"
             Sortable="true"
             ShowColumnMenu="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Width="120px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))" Title="Employee Name" Groupable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" Title="Team" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.HireDate))" Title="Hire Date" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 30).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "name " + x,
        Team = "team " + x % 5,
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x).Date
    });

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![column menu basic example screenshot](images/column-menu-basic-example.png)


## Features

To use the features of the `Column Menu` use the `<GridColumnMenuSettings>`, nested inside the `<GridSettings>`.

* To allow sorting from the Column Menu set the `Sortable` parameter to `true`.

* To control the filtering from the Column Menu set the `FilterMode` parameter to a member of the `ColumnMenuFilterMode` enum:
    * `None` - disables the filtering from the Column Menu.
    * `FilterMenu` - enables a filter menu to apply filtering.

* To allow locking and unlocking of a column from the Column Menu, set the `Lockable` parameter of the column to `true`.

* To hide a column from the Grid use the [Column Chooser](#column-chooser).

* To disable the Column Menu for a specific column in the Grid set the `ShowColumnMenu` parameter of the column to `false`.

* To disable filtering and sorting for a specific column set the `Filterable` and `Sortable` parameters of the column to `false`.


### Column Chooser

![column chooser screenshot](images/column-menu-column-chooser.png)

The Column Chooser is enabled by default in the Column Menu and allows you to toggle the visiblity of Grid columns from the Column Menu. By the default all columns are visible under the `Columns` section of the Column Menu. 

To hide a column from the Column Chooser set the `VisibleInColumnChooser` property of the adjacent column to `false`.

To disable the Column Chooser from the Column Menu set the `ShowColumnChooser` paramter of the `<GridColumnMenuSettings>` to `false`.

To disable the Column Chooser from the Column Menu for a specific column set the `ShowColumnChooser` paramter of the Grid column to false.

## Notes

* An exception will be thrown if the `FilterMode` of the Grid is set to `FilterRow` and a column menu is used as the filter descriptors of the two features are not compatible.


## Examples



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Visible Columns](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/columns)

Commit message:

chore(grid): improvements on the column menu article

components/grid/columns/menu.md, after:

---
title: Column Menu
page_title: Grid - Column Menu
description: Use the Column Menu for the Grid
slug: grid-column-menu
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,column,columns,menu
published: True
position: 20
---

# Column Menu

The Grid allows you to setup a menu for it's columns. It enables you to perform high-level customization like [sorting]({%slug components/grid/features/sorting%}), [filtering]({%slug components/grid/filtering%}), [showing or hiding]({%slug grid-columns-visible%}) columns and [freezing or unfreezing]({%slug grid-columns-frozen%}) them.

In this article:
* [Basics](#basics)
* [Notes](#notes)
* [Features](#features)
    * [Column Chooser](#column-chooser)
* [Examples](#examples)

## Basics

To enable the column menu set the `ShowColumnMenu` parameter of the `<TelerikGrid>` tag to `true`. This will enable the menu for each column of the Grid.

By default all the [features](#features) of the Column Menu are enabled.

>caption Enable the column menu for all Grid columns. Basic example.

````CSHTML
@* Set the ShowColumnMenu parameter to true *@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" 
             Pageable="true"
             PageSize="5"
             Width="700px"
             FilterMode="@GridFilterMode.FilterMenu"
             Sortable="true"
             ShowColumnMenu="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Width="120px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))" Title="Employee Name" Groupable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" Title="Team" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.HireDate))" Title="Hire Date" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 30).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "name " + x,
        Team = "team " + x % 5,
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x).Date
    });

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![column menu basic example screenshot](images/column-menu-basic-example.png)


## Features

To use the features of the `Column Menu` use the `<GridColumnMenuSettings>`, nested inside the `<GridSettings>`.

* To allow sorting from the Column Menu set the `Sortable` parameter to `true`.

* To control the filtering from the Column Menu set the `FilterMode` parameter to a member of the `ColumnMenuFilterMode` enum:
    * `None` - disables the filtering from the Column Menu.
    * `FilterMenu` - enables a filter menu to apply filtering.

* To allow locking and unlocking of a column from the Column Menu, set the `Lockable` parameter of the column to `true`.

* To hide a column from the Grid use the [Column Chooser](#column-chooser).

* To disable the Column Menu for a specific column in the Grid set the `ShowColumnMenu` parameter of the column to `false`.

* To disable filtering and sorting for a specific column set the `Filterable` and `Sortable` parameters of the column to `false`.


### Column Chooser

![column chooser screenshot](images/column-menu-column-chooser.png)

The Column Chooser is enabled by default in the Column Menu and allows you to toggle the visiblity of Grid columns from the Column Menu. By the default all columns are visible under the `Columns` section of the Column Menu. 

To hide a column from the Column Chooser set the `VisibleInColumnChooser` property of the adjacent column to `false`.

To disable the Column Chooser from the Column Menu set the `ShowColumnChooser` paramter of the `<GridColumnMenuSettings>` to `false`.

To disable the Column Chooser from the Column Menu for a specific column set the `ShowColumnChooser` paramter of the Grid column to false.

## Notes

* An exception will be thrown if the `FilterMode` of the Grid is set to `FilterRow` and a column menu is used as the filter descriptors of the two features are not compatible.


## Examples



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Visible Columns](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/columns)
