components/grid/filtering.md, before:

---
title: Filtering
page_title: Grid for Blazor | Filtering
description: Enable and configure filtering in Grid for Blazor
slug: components/grid/filtering
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,filtering,filter
published: True
position: 22
---

# Grid Filtering

The Grid component offers support for filtering.

To enable filtering, set the grid's `Filterable` property to `true`.

There are two filtering modes:

* [`FilterRow`](#filter-row) (default) - a row of filter options is rendered below the column headers
* [`FilterMenu`](#filter-menu) - the column headers render a button that shows a popup with filtering options

The behavior of the filter input and the available filter operators will depend on the column data type. For example, a boolean field will only have the options "is true" and "is false" and will not have operators like "contains" or "greater than".

You can filter more than one column at a time, and all filter rules will be applied together with an `AND` logic.

## Filter Row

The grid will render a row below the column headers with UI that you can use to fill in the filter criteria. You can click outside of the filter to execute the default operator, or click a button to choose a different filter operator (like "contains", "greater than" and so on).

Once a filter is a applied to a column, a button will appear that lets you clear that filter.

>caption Filter Row in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Grid

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Filterable="true" Pageable="true" Height="400px">
	<TelerikGridColumns>
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.AgeInYears) Title="Age" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.HireDate) Title="Hire Date" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.IsOnLeave) Title="On Vacation" />
	</TelerikGridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

	protected override void OnInit()
	{
		GridData = new List<Employee>();
		var rand = new Random();
		for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
		{
			GridData.Add(new Employee()
			{
				EmployeeId = i,
				Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
				AgeInYears = rand.Next(10, 80),
				HireDate = DateTime.Now.Date.AddDays(rand.Next(-20, 20)),
				IsOnLeave = i % 3 == 0
			});
		}
	}

	public class Employee
	{
		public int? EmployeeId { get; set; }
		public string Name { get; set; }
		public int? AgeInYears { get; set; }
		public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
		public bool IsOnLeave { get; set; }
	}
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above, before and after the user filled in a filter and clicked on the filter button

![](images/filterable-grid.png)

![](images/filtered-grid.png)

## Filter Menu

To use a filter menu, set the `FilterMode` property of the grid to `Telerik.Blazor.FilterMode.FilterMenu`.

The grid will render a button in the column header that you click to get a popup with filtering options. The popup lets you choose filter operator, filter criteria, to apply and clear the filter.

A key difference in the behavior is that the filter is now applied only upon a button click, not upon input change. This may improve performance if you use [manual CRUD operations]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}) by reducing the number of requests.

>caption Filter Menu in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Grid

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Filterable="true" FilterMode="Telerik.Blazor.FilterMode.FilterMenu"
			 Pageable="true" Height="400px">
	<TelerikGridColumns>
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.AgeInYears) Title="Age" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.HireDate) Title="Hire Date" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.IsOnLeave) Title="On Vacation" />
	</TelerikGridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

	protected override void OnInit()
	{
		GridData = new List<Employee>();
		var rand = new Random();
		for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
		{
			GridData.Add(new Employee()
			{
				EmployeeId = i,
				Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
				AgeInYears = rand.Next(10, 80),
				HireDate = DateTime.Now.Date.AddDays(rand.Next(-20, 20)),
				IsOnLeave = i % 3 == 0
			});
		}
	}

	public class Employee
	{
		public int? EmployeeId { get; set; }
		public string Name { get; set; }
		public int? AgeInYears { get; set; }
		public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
		public bool IsOnLeave { get; set; }
	}
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above, after the "Age" column has been filtered with <= 30 operator.

![](images/filterable-grid-filter-menu.png)


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Filtering](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/filtering)

Commit message:

docs(grid): update filtering docs

components/grid/filtering.md, after:

---
title: Filtering
page_title: Grid for Blazor | Filtering
description: Enable and configure filtering in Grid for Blazor
slug: components/grid/filtering
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,filtering,filter
published: True
position: 22
---

# Grid Filtering

The Grid component offers support for filtering.

To enable filtering, set the grid's `Filterable` property to `true`.

There are two filtering modes:

* [`FilterRow`](#filter-row) (default) - a row of filter options is rendered below the column headers
* [`FilterMenu`](#filter-menu) - the column headers render a button that shows a popup with filtering options

The behavior of the filter input and the available filter operators will depend on the column data type. For example, a boolean field will only have the options "is true" and "is false" and will not have operators like "contains" or "greater than".

You can filter more than one column at a time, and all filter rules will be applied together with an `AND` logic.

## Filter Row

The filter row is the default filter behavior of the grid. It corresponds to setting the `FilterMode` property of the grid to `Telerik.Blazor.FilterMode.FilterMenu`.

The grid will render a row below the column headers with UI that you can use to fill in the filter criteria. You can type in the input to execute the default operator as you type, or click a button to choose a different filter operator (like "contains", "greater than" and so on).

Once a filter is a applied to a column, a button will appear that lets you clear that filter.

>caption Filter Row in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Grid

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Filterable="true" Pageable="true" Height="400px">
	<TelerikGridColumns>
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.AgeInYears) Title="Age" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.HireDate) Title="Hire Date" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.IsOnLeave) Title="On Vacation" />
	</TelerikGridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

	protected override void OnInit()
	{
		GridData = new List<Employee>();
		var rand = new Random();
		for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
		{
			GridData.Add(new Employee()
			{
				EmployeeId = i,
				Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
				AgeInYears = rand.Next(10, 80),
				HireDate = DateTime.Now.Date.AddDays(rand.Next(-20, 20)),
				IsOnLeave = i % 3 == 0
			});
		}
	}

	public class Employee
	{
		public int? EmployeeId { get; set; }
		public string Name { get; set; }
		public int? AgeInYears { get; set; }
		public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
		public bool IsOnLeave { get; set; }
	}
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above, before and after the user filled in a filter and clicked on the filter button

![](images/filter-row-1.png)

![](images/filter-row-filtered.png)

## Filter Menu

To use a filter menu, set the `FilterMode` property of the grid to `Telerik.Blazor.FilterMode.FilterMenu`.

The grid will render a button in the column header that you click to get a popup with filtering options. The popup lets you choose filter operator, filter criteria, to apply and clear the filter.

A key difference in the behavior from the [filter row](#filter-row) is that the filter is now applied only upon a button click, not upon input change. This may improve performance if you use [manual CRUD operations]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}) by reducing the number of requests.

>caption Filter Menu in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Grid

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Filterable="true" FilterMode="Telerik.Blazor.FilterMode.FilterMenu"
			 Pageable="true" Height="400px">
	<TelerikGridColumns>
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.AgeInYears) Title="Age" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.HireDate) Title="Hire Date" />
		<TelerikGridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.IsOnLeave) Title="On Vacation" />
	</TelerikGridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

	protected override void OnInit()
	{
		GridData = new List<Employee>();
		var rand = new Random();
		for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
		{
			GridData.Add(new Employee()
			{
				EmployeeId = i,
				Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
				AgeInYears = rand.Next(10, 80),
				HireDate = DateTime.Now.Date.AddDays(rand.Next(-20, 20)),
				IsOnLeave = i % 3 == 0
			});
		}
	}

	public class Employee
	{
		public int? EmployeeId { get; set; }
		public string Name { get; set; }
		public int? AgeInYears { get; set; }
		public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
		public bool IsOnLeave { get; set; }
	}
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above, after the "Age" column has been filtered with <= 30 operator.

![](images/filter-menu-1.png)


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Filter Row](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/filter-row)
  * [Live Demo: Grid Filter Menu](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/filter-menu)
