components/grid/paging.md, before:

---
title: Paging
page_title: Grid - Paging
description: Enable and configure paging in Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/features/paging
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,paging
published: True
position: 20
---

# Grid Paging

The Grid component offers support for paging.

To enable paging, set its `Pageable` property to `true`. 

You can control the number of records per page through the `PageSize` property.

You can set the current page of the grid through its integer `Page` property.

>caption Enable paging in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
Enable paging and start on the second page.

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Pageable="true" PageSize="15" Page="2" Height="500px">
	<GridColumns>
		<GridColumn Field="ID"></GridColumn>
		<GridColumn Field="TheName" Title="Employee Name"></GridColumn>
	</GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public IEnumerable<object> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new { ID = x, TheName = "name " + x });
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/paging-overview.png)

>tip You can bind the values of those properties to variables in the `@code {}` section. If you want to bind the page index to a variable, you must use the `@bind-Page="@MyPageIndexVariable"` syntax.

Here is one way to implement a page size choice that puts all records on one page.

>caption Bind Page Size to a variable

````CSHTML
Dynamic page size change

<select @onchange=@ChangePageSize>
	@for (int i = 1; i < 4; i++)
	{
		<option value=@(i*10)>@(i * 10)</option>
	}
	<option value="all" selected>all</option>
</select>

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Pageable="true" PageSize="@PageSize">
	<GridColumns>
		<GridColumn Field="ID"></GridColumn>
		<GridColumn Field="TheName" Title="Employee Name"></GridColumn>
	</GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public IEnumerable<object> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new { ID = x, TheName = "name " + x });

	protected int PageSize { get; set; }

	protected void ChangePageSize(ChangeEventArgs e)
	{
		if (e.Value.ToString().ToLowerInvariant() == "all")
		{
			PageSize = MyData.Count();
		}
		else
		{
			PageSize = int.Parse(e.Value.ToString());
		}
	}
}
````

## More Examples

The following articles and sample projects can be helpful when implementing paging:

* [Capture PageChanged event]({%slug grid-events%}#pagechanged)

* [Server Paging]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}) - this article explains how to implement manual data source operations so you can offload the work to the server. It provides the overview of how to setup the grid for that, and examples - several with local data and links a repository with examples using REST API endpoints.

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Paging](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/paging)

Commit message:

chore(grid): notes on PageChanged and one-way binding issues

components/grid/paging.md, after:

---
title: Paging
page_title: Grid - Paging
description: Enable and configure paging in Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/features/paging
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,paging
published: True
position: 20
---

# Grid Paging

The Grid component offers support for paging.

To enable paging, set its `Pageable` property to `true`. 

You can control the number of records per page through the `PageSize` property.

You can set the current page of the grid through its integer `Page` property.

>caption Enable paging in Telerik Grid

````CSHTML
Enable paging and start on the second page.

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Pageable="true" PageSize="15" Page="2" Height="500px">
	<GridColumns>
		<GridColumn Field="ID"></GridColumn>
		<GridColumn Field="TheName" Title="Employee Name"></GridColumn>
	</GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public IEnumerable<object> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new { ID = x, TheName = "name " + x });
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/paging-overview.png)

>note If you want to bind the page index to a variable, you must use two-way binding - the `@bind-Page="@MyPageIndexVariable"` syntax. If you only use one-way binding -  `Page="@MyPageIndexVariable"` - the grid will reset to the value of that parameter on every re-render. If you choose to use one-way binding, you must update the field value in the [`PageChanged` event]({%slug grid-events%}#pagechanged) to avoid that.

Here is one way to implement a page size choice that puts all records on one page.

>caption Bind Page Size to a variable

````CSHTML
Dynamic page size change

<select @onchange=@ChangePageSize>
	@for (int i = 1; i < 4; i++)
	{
		<option value=@(i*10)>@(i * 10)</option>
	}
	<option value="all" selected>all</option>
</select>

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Pageable="true" PageSize="@PageSize">
	<GridColumns>
		<GridColumn Field="ID"></GridColumn>
		<GridColumn Field="TheName" Title="Employee Name"></GridColumn>
	</GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
	public IEnumerable<object> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new { ID = x, TheName = "name " + x });

	protected int PageSize { get; set; }

	protected void ChangePageSize(ChangeEventArgs e)
	{
		if (e.Value.ToString().ToLowerInvariant() == "all")
		{
			PageSize = MyData.Count();
		}
		else
		{
			PageSize = int.Parse(e.Value.ToString());
		}
	}
}
````

## More Examples

The following articles and sample projects can be helpful when implementing paging:

* [Capture PageChanged event]({%slug grid-events%}#pagechanged)

* [Server Paging]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}) - this article explains how to implement manual data source operations so you can offload the work to the server. It provides the overview of how to setup the grid for that, and examples - several with local data and links a repository with examples using REST API endpoints.

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Paging](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/paging)
