introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
page_title: Introduction
description: "Overview of Progress Telerik UI for Blazor"
slug: blazor-overview
position: 1
---

# Welcome to UI for Blazor

Thank you for choosing Telerik® UI for Blazor!

The [Blazor framework](https://blazor.net/) by Microsoft allows you to create web applications with .NET and C# to create front-end. The Telerik® UI for Blazor components facilitate the front-end development by providing you with ready made UI components.

The UI for Blazor suite shares HTML rendering and web assets (like stylesheets) with the Kendo UI suites, so you can reuse existing knowledge and classes. The components in **UI for Blazor are native components** and not wrappers over jQuery widgets, however.

Telerik UI for Blazor supports both Client-side Blazor and Serve-side Blazor apps.

To read more about the benefits of using Telerik UI for Blazor, please visit the <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui" target="_blank">product overview page</a>.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/get-started.md#start-trial-button)

## Getting Started

If you are new to Telerik UI for Blazor, we recommend that you **follow the First Steps articles** to add the Telerik components to your application:

* [Get Started with Client-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})

* [Get Started with Server-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})

You can find the basics of what our packages include and how to set up a project in the [What You Need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}) article. It is suitable for people familiar with the IDE and Blazor and lists some more advanced details than the articles above.

<!--
If you are not familiar with Blazor yet, you may find useful our Blazor Quick Start Guide video series:

* [Blazor Getting Started Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aaRAZYaJ4xc&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=1)
* [Blazor Component Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9BOkBFDbc0&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=2)
* [Blazor Component Events using EventCallback](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdEQBhPoTes&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=3)
* [Blazor Two-Way Binding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9a6rJPrFFI&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=4)
-->

If you are just getting started with Blazor and Web development, you may find the following resources useful in getting up to speed with the core concepts:

* [Telerik e-book: Blazor: A Beginner's Guide](https://www.telerik.com/campaigns/blazor/wp-beginners-guide-ebook) and its [Samples repo](https://github.com/EdCharbeneau/BlazorBookExamples)
* [MSDN: First Steps with Blazor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/get-started?view=aspnetcore-3.0&tabs=visual-studio)
* [MSDN: Razor Syntax Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/views/razor?view=aspnetcore-3.0)

You can watch a YouTube playlist of getting started tutorials for Telerik UI for Blazor below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## List of Components

Blazor is still a new technology and the component suite is young. We are constantly working on adding new features and components.

At the moment, the following components are available:

<!-- see the config file for the this declaration -->
{% include intro-page-table.html %}

Tell us which components you want implemented and how you intend to use them, and Blazor, at [our feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor).

## Trial Version and Commercial License

This UI for Blazor library is a commercial UI library. You are welcome to explore its full functionality and get technical support from the team when you register for a free 30-day trial. To use it commercially, you need to <a href="https://www.telerik.com/purchase/blazor-ui" target="_blank">purchase a license</a>. Feel free to review the Telerik UI for Blazor <a href="https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/blazor-ui" target="_blank">License Agreement</a> to get acquainted with the full terms of use.


## Support Options

For any issues you might encounter while working with Telerik UI for Blazor, use any of the available support channels:

* License holders and active trialists can take advantage of our outstanding customer support delivered by the developers building the library. To submit a support ticket, use the [UI for Blazor dedicated support](https://www.telerik.com/account/support-tickets/) system.
* [UI for Blazor forums](https://www.telerik.com/forums/blazor) are part of the free support you can get from the community and from the UI for Blazor team on all kinds of general issues.
* [UI for Blazor feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor) and [UI for Blazor roadmap](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/blazor-ui/roadmap) provide information on the features in discussion and also the planned ones for release.
* UI for Blazor uses [its feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor) as its bug tracker and you can submit any related reports there. Also, check out the [closed bugs list](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor?listMode=Recent&typeId=3&statusId=2).
* You may still need a tailor-made solution for your project. In such cases, go straight to [Progress Services](https://www.progress.com/services).


## Learning Resources

* <a href="https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Online Demos</a> - also available as a project you can inspect and run locally. You can find them in the `demos` folder of your [installation]({%slug installation/msi%}).

* <a href="https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/knowledge-base" target="_blank">Knowledge Base</a> - contains answers to some common questions, problems and errors. Free-text search is also available.

* <a href="https://github.com/telerik/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Samples Repo</a> - example projects that showcase popular scenarios so you can jump-start your project by copying from them.

* <a href="https://www.telerik.com/support/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Blazor UI Support and Learning Resources</a> - a hub with links to all resources such as blogs, videos, repos, docs and so on.

<!-- TODO: add virtual classroom link when available -->


## Next Steps

* [First steps with Client-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/client-side%}) (online guide)

* [First steps with Server-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/server-side%}) (online guide)

* [What You Need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}) - concise version of the tutorials above

* Generate a new Telerik Project (guided wizard) - for  [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and for [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-overview%}).

* [Convert an existing project to a Telerik-enabled project]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-convert-project%})

* [Upgrade to a newer version of Telerik UI for Blazor]({%slug upgrade-tutorial%})

Commit message:

Seo metadata update (#95)
* chore(common): title prefix (wip)

* chore(api): api ref metadata update

* chore(common): seo titles update per areas

* chore(common): fix title issues

* chore(common): add traling dots to meta description

* chore(common): fix pages that got broken

* chore(kb): touch up the meta description suffix

* chore(api): attempt metadata

* chore(api): attempt for api index metadata 2

* chore(api): revert api index metadata attempts - they don't work

* chore(common): intro page metadata

* chore(common): custom metadata for some pages

* chore(common): replace pipes with dashes in titles for seo

introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
page_title: Complete Blazor Components Documentation
description: Creating web apps with .NET, while using C# for the front-end part has never been easier. Check Telerik UI for Blazor documentation for guidance and examples.
slug: blazor-overview
position: 1
---

# Welcome to UI for Blazor

Thank you for choosing Telerik® UI for Blazor!

The [Blazor framework](https://blazor.net/) by Microsoft allows you to create web applications with .NET and C# to create front-end. The Telerik® UI for Blazor components facilitate the front-end development by providing you with ready made UI components.

The UI for Blazor suite shares HTML rendering and web assets (like stylesheets) with the Kendo UI suites, so you can reuse existing knowledge and classes. The components in **UI for Blazor are native components** and not wrappers over jQuery widgets, however.

Telerik UI for Blazor supports both Client-side Blazor and Serve-side Blazor apps.

To read more about the benefits of using Telerik UI for Blazor, please visit the <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui" target="_blank">product overview page</a>.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/get-started.md#start-trial-button)

## Getting Started

If you are new to Telerik UI for Blazor, we recommend that you **follow the First Steps articles** to add the Telerik components to your application:

* [Get Started with Client-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})

* [Get Started with Server-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})

You can find the basics of what our packages include and how to set up a project in the [What You Need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}) article. It is suitable for people familiar with the IDE and Blazor and lists some more advanced details than the articles above.

<!--
If you are not familiar with Blazor yet, you may find useful our Blazor Quick Start Guide video series:

* [Blazor Getting Started Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aaRAZYaJ4xc&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=1)
* [Blazor Component Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9BOkBFDbc0&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=2)
* [Blazor Component Events using EventCallback](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdEQBhPoTes&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=3)
* [Blazor Two-Way Binding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9a6rJPrFFI&list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo&index=4)
-->

If you are just getting started with Blazor and Web development, you may find the following resources useful in getting up to speed with the core concepts:

* [Telerik e-book: Blazor: A Beginner's Guide](https://www.telerik.com/campaigns/blazor/wp-beginners-guide-ebook) and its [Samples repo](https://github.com/EdCharbeneau/BlazorBookExamples)
* [MSDN: First Steps with Blazor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/get-started?view=aspnetcore-3.0&tabs=visual-studio)
* [MSDN: Razor Syntax Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/views/razor?view=aspnetcore-3.0)

You can watch a YouTube playlist of getting started tutorials for Telerik UI for Blazor below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLvmaC-XMqeBYPTwcm478vs8Rujq2tiVJo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## List of Components

Blazor is still a new technology and the component suite is young. We are constantly working on adding new features and components.

At the moment, the following components are available:

<!-- see the config file for the this declaration -->
{% include intro-page-table.html %}

Tell us which components you want implemented and how you intend to use them, and Blazor, at [our feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor).

## Trial Version and Commercial License

This UI for Blazor library is a commercial UI library. You are welcome to explore its full functionality and get technical support from the team when you register for a free 30-day trial. To use it commercially, you need to <a href="https://www.telerik.com/purchase/blazor-ui" target="_blank">purchase a license</a>. Feel free to review the Telerik UI for Blazor <a href="https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/blazor-ui" target="_blank">License Agreement</a> to get acquainted with the full terms of use.


## Support Options

For any issues you might encounter while working with Telerik UI for Blazor, use any of the available support channels:

* License holders and active trialists can take advantage of our outstanding customer support delivered by the developers building the library. To submit a support ticket, use the [UI for Blazor dedicated support](https://www.telerik.com/account/support-tickets/) system.
* [UI for Blazor forums](https://www.telerik.com/forums/blazor) are part of the free support you can get from the community and from the UI for Blazor team on all kinds of general issues.
* [UI for Blazor feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor) and [UI for Blazor roadmap](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/blazor-ui/roadmap) provide information on the features in discussion and also the planned ones for release.
* UI for Blazor uses [its feedback portal](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor) as its bug tracker and you can submit any related reports there. Also, check out the [closed bugs list](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor?listMode=Recent&typeId=3&statusId=2).
* You may still need a tailor-made solution for your project. In such cases, go straight to [Progress Services](https://www.progress.com/services).


## Learning Resources

* <a href="https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Online Demos</a> - also available as a project you can inspect and run locally. You can find them in the `demos` folder of your [installation]({%slug installation/msi%}).

* <a href="https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/knowledge-base" target="_blank">Knowledge Base</a> - contains answers to some common questions, problems and errors. Free-text search is also available.

* <a href="https://github.com/telerik/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Samples Repo</a> - example projects that showcase popular scenarios so you can jump-start your project by copying from them.

* <a href="https://www.telerik.com/support/blazor-ui" target="_blank">Blazor UI Support and Learning Resources</a> - a hub with links to all resources such as blogs, videos, repos, docs and so on.

<!-- TODO: add virtual classroom link when available -->


## Next Steps

* [First steps with Client-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/client-side%}) (online guide)

* [First steps with Server-side Blazor]({%slug getting-started/server-side%}) (online guide)

* [What You Need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}) - concise version of the tutorials above

* Generate a new Telerik Project (guided wizard) - for  [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and for [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-overview%}).

* [Convert an existing project to a Telerik-enabled project]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-convert-project%})

* [Upgrade to a newer version of Telerik UI for Blazor]({%slug upgrade-tutorial%})
