README.md, before:

---
title: Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation Repo
publish: false
---

# Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation

Welcome to the GitHub repo for [UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/products/blazor) documentation. This repository contains the source content — written in Markdown — that we use to power Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation at [http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction](http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction). If you've arrived here wanting to search and peruse our docs, you'd be better served heading over to [http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction](http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction) where our content is prettified and searchable.

## Running Locally

You can generate a static web site from the Telerik® UI for Blazor documentation and browse it locally.

1. Clone the repository `git clone git@github.com:telerik/blazor-docs.git`
2. Run `bundle install` (you must have ruby and bundler installed beforehand)
3. If `bundle install` fails with SSL related errors execute `gem update --system` and try again.
4. Run `jekyll serve`
5. Open "http://localhost:8080/blazor/introduction.html" in your browser

## License

The Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation is licensed under an MIT license. This license applies to the markdown (.md) files in this site **ONLY**, and does not convey, override or modify any existing licenses covering the runtime source and components of Telerik® UI for Blazor. For information about available licenses for the Telerik® UI for Blazor click [here](http://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/blazor).

For the time being, you can download a trial from [https://www.telerik.com/download-trial-file/v2-b/ui-for-blazor](https://www.telerik.com/download-trial-file/v2-b/ui-for-blazor) and then follow the [First Steps article](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor/getting-started/first-steps) to use our components.

### MIT License

Copyright (c) 2012-2019 Telerik

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software" ), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

chore(common): update instructions for running locally

README.md, after:

---
title: Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation Repo
publish: false
---

# Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation

Welcome to the GitHub repo for [UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/products/blazor) documentation. This repository contains the source content — written in Markdown — that we use to power Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation at [http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction](http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction). If you've arrived here wanting to search and peruse our docs, you'd be better served heading over to [http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction](http://docs.telerik.com/blazor/introduction) where our content is prettified and searchable.

## Running Locally

You can generate a static web site from the Telerik® UI for Blazor documentation and browse it locally.

1. Clone the repository `git clone git@github.com:telerik/blazor-docs.git`
2. Go to the [https://github.com/telerik/docs-seed](https://github.com/telerik/docs-seed) repo and follow the instructions from its own readme file

If you want to keep the local documentation alive after closing the prompt, you can add the `_site` folder that was generated to a server of your choice. Make sure that it is under a path like `serverName/blazor`. You can find sample instructions in the following page, and they are applicable for IIS, even though they are written for the UI for ASP.NET AJAX docs that have two folders nested: [https://github.com/telerik/ajax-docs/wiki/Deploying-Documentation-on-IIS](https://github.com/telerik/ajax-docs/wiki/Deploying-Documentation-on-IIS).

## License

The Telerik® UI for Blazor Documentation is licensed under an MIT license. This license applies to the markdown (.md) files in this site **ONLY**, and does not convey, override or modify any existing licenses covering the runtime source and components of Telerik® UI for Blazor. For information about available licenses for the Telerik® UI for Blazor click [here](http://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/blazor).

For the time being, you can download a trial from [https://www.telerik.com/download-trial-file/v2-b/ui-for-blazor](https://www.telerik.com/download-trial-file/v2-b/ui-for-blazor) and then follow the [First Steps article](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor/getting-started/first-steps) to use our components.

### MIT License

Copyright (c) 2012-2019 Telerik

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software" ), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
