components/loadercontainer/appearance.md, before:

---
title: Appearance
page_title: LoaderContainer Appearance
description: Appearance settings of the LoadingContainer for Blazor.
slug: loadercontainer-appearance
tags: telerik,blazor,loader,container,loadercontainer,appearance
published: True
position: 5
---

# Appearance Settings

The LoaderContainer component provides the following parameters that control its appearance:

* [LoaderContainer Specific](#loadercontainer-specific)
    * [OverlayThemeColor](#overlaythemecolor)
* [Shared with the Loader Indicator](#shared-with-the-loader-indicator)
    * [Type](#type)
    * [Size](#size)
    * [ThemeColor](#themecolor)

You can use all three together to get the desired appearance. This article will explain their effect one by one.

## Type

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/type.md#loaders-type)

## Size

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/size.md#loaders-size)

## ThemeColor

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/themeColor.md#loaders-theme-color)

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Loader Overview](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/loader/overview)
  * [Live Demo: Loader Appearance](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/loader/appearance)

Commit message:

chore(lc): improve appearance article

components/loadercontainer/appearance.md, after:

---
title: Appearance
page_title: LoaderContainer Appearance
description: Appearance settings of the LoadingContainer for Blazor.
slug: loadercontainer-appearance
tags: telerik,blazor,loader,container,loadercontainer,appearance
published: True
position: 5
---

# Appearance Settings

The LoaderContainer component provides the following parameters that control its appearance:

* [LoaderContainer Specific](#loadercontainer-specific)
    * [OverlayThemeColor](#overlaythemecolor)
* [Shared with the Loader Indicator](#shared-with-the-loader-indicator)
    * [Type](#type)
    * [Size](#size)
    * [ThemeColor](#themecolor)

## LoaderContainer Specific

### OverlayThemeColor

The `OverlayThemeColor` parameter controls the color of the overlay for the LoaderContainer. It takes a string from the options below. If you provide a `String.Empty`, `null` or invalid option (not listed below) the color of the overlay will be `transparent`.

* `dark` - the default background color.
* `light`

## Shared with the Loader Indicator

### Type

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/type.md#loaders-type)

### Size

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/size.md#loaders-size)

### ThemeColor

@[template](/_contentTemplates/loaders/themeColor.md#loaders-theme-color)

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Loader Overview](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/loader/overview)
  * [Live Demo: Loader Appearance](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/loader/appearance)
