components/card/layouts.md, before:

---
title: Layouts
page_title: Card Layouts
description: Layouts for the Card for Blazor.
slug: card-layouts
tags: telerik,blazor,card,layouts
published: True
position: 11
---

# Card Layouts

When working with a collection of Cards, you can control the layout of their rendering by wrapping all the Card instances in a container and apply the desired styles to position them.

The Telerik Themes provide the following layouts through built-in classes:

* [Deck](#cards-in-deck-layout)

* [List](#cards-in-list-layout)

* [Group](#cards-in-group-layout)


## Cards in Deck Layout

Add the `k-card-deck` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a Deck Layout.

>caption Cards in Deck Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![Deck layout](images/deck-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with Deck Layout*@

<div class="k-card-deck">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## Cards in List Layout

Add the `k-card-list` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a List Layout.

>caption Cards in List Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![List layout](images/list-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with List Layout*@

<div class="k-card-list">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## Cards in Group Layout

Add the `k-card-group` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a Group Layout.

>caption Cards in Group Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![Group layout](images/group-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with Group Layout*@

<div class="k-card-group">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Card Layouts](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/card/layouts)

Commit message:

docs: Add informatiob about Card height

components/card/layouts.md, after:

---
title: Layouts
page_title: Card Layouts
description: Layouts for the Card for Blazor.
slug: card-layouts
tags: telerik,blazor,card,layouts
published: True
position: 11
---

# Card Layouts

When working with a collection of Cards, you can control the collection layout by wrapping all the Card instances in a container and apply the desired styles to position them.

The Telerik Themes provide the following layouts through built-in classes:

* [Deck](#cards-in-deck-layout)

* [List](#cards-in-list-layout)

* [Group](#cards-in-group-layout)

In addition, any layout can be created with suitable CSS code. For example - a [Tile layout of Cards that wrap to multiple rows](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/card/data-cards).

## Cards in Deck Layout

Add the `k-card-deck` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a Deck Layout. All Cards will display in a single row with some empty space between them. All Cards will expand vertically to have the same height as the highest card in the deck.

>caption Cards in Deck Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![Deck layout](images/deck-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with Deck Layout*@

<div class="k-card-deck">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## Cards in List Layout

Add the `k-card-list` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a List Layout. All Cards will display in a single column.

>caption Cards in List Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![List layout](images/list-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with List Layout*@

<div class="k-card-list">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## Cards in Group Layout

Add the `k-card-group` class to the wrapping container of the Cards to organize them in a Group Layout. All Cards will display in a single row with no space between them. All Cards will expand vertically to have the same height as the highest card in the group.

>caption Cards in Group Layout. The result from the snippet below.

![Group layout](images/group-layout-example.png)

````CSHTML
@*Cards with Group Layout*@

<div class="k-card-group">

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>

    <TelerikCard Width="200px">
        <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Card Title</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
        <CardBody>
            <p>Some quick example text to build on the card title and make up the bulk of the card content.</p>
        </CardBody>
        <CardSeparator></CardSeparator>
        <CardActions Layout="CardActionsLayout.Center">
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 1</TelerikButton>
            <TelerikButton Class="k-flat">Action 2</TelerikButton>
        </CardActions>
    </TelerikCard>
    
</div>
````


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Card Layouts](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/card/layouts)
