components/datepicker/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Date Picker Overview
description: Overview of the Date Picker for Blazor.
slug: components/datepicker/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,date,picker,datepicker,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Blazor Date Picker Component Overview

The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/datepicker" target="_blank">Blazor Date Picker component</a> allows the user to choose a date from a visual list ([calendar]({%slug components/calendar/overview%})) or to type it into a [date input]({%slug components/dateinput/overview%}) that can accept only dates. You can control the format shown in the input, how the user navigates through the calendar, and dates the user cannot select.

#### To use a Telerik Date Picker for Blazor, add the `TelerikDatePicker` tag.

>caption Basic date picker with namespace and reference

````CSHTML
The selected date is: @datePickerValue.ToShortDateString()
<br />

<TelerikDatePicker @bind-Value="datePickerValue" @ref="theDatePicker"></TelerikDatePicker>

@code  {
    DateTime datePickerValue { get; set; } = DateTime.Now;

    Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikDatePicker<DateTime> theDatePicker;
    // the type of the component depends on the type of the value
    // in this case it is DateTime, but it could be DateTime?
}
````

![Blazor Date Picker App Example](images/datepicker-first-look.png)

## Features

The Blazor Date Picker component exposes the following features:

*  `BottomView` - Defines the bottommost view in the popup calendar to which the user can navigate to. Defaults to `CalendarView.Month`.
* `DisabledDates` - Specifies a list of dates that can not be selected.
* `Class` - The custom CSS class rendered on the wrapping element.
* `PopupClass` - additional CSS class to customize the appearance of the Date Picker's dropdown.
* `Enabled` - Specifies whether typing in the input is allowed.
* `Format` - Specifies the format of the DateInput of the DatePicker. [Read more about supported data formats in Telerik DateInput for Blazor UI]({%slug components/dateinput/supported-formats%}) article.
* `Id` - renders as the `id` attribute on the `<input />` element, so you can attach a `<label for="">` to the input.
* `Min` - The earliest date that the user can select.
* `Max` - The latest date that the user can select.
* `PopupHeight` - Defines the height of the DatePicker's Popup. Defaults to `auto`.
* `PopupWidth` - Defines the width of the DatePicker's Popup. Defaults to `auto`.
* `Value` - The current value of the input. Can be used for binding.
* `View` - Specifies the current view that will be displayed in the popup calendar.
* `Width` - Defines the width of the DatePicker. Defaults to `280px`.
* Validation - see the [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%}) article.

The date picker is, essentially, a [date input]({%slug components/dateinput/overview%}) and a [calendar]({%slug components/calendar/overview%}) and the properties it exposes are mapped to the corresponding properties of these two components. You can read more about their behavior in the respective components' documentation.



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Date Picker](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/datepicker/index)
  * [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%})
  * [Supported Input Date Formats]({%slug components/dateinput/supported-formats%})
  * [API Reference](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/api/Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikDatePicker-1)

Commit message:

chore(date-inputs): overview articles improvements

components/datepicker/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Date Picker Overview
description: Overview of the Date Picker for Blazor.
slug: components/datepicker/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,date,picker,datepicker,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Blazor Date Picker Component Overview

The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/datepicker" target="_blank">Blazor Date Picker component</a> allows the user to choose a date from a visual list ([calendar]({%slug components/calendar/overview%})) or to type it into a [date input]({%slug components/dateinput/overview%}) that can accept only dates. You can control the format shown in the input, how the user navigates through the calendar, and dates the user cannot select.

#### The information in this article is separated in the following sections:

* [Basics](#basics)

* [Features](#features)

* [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

    * [Knowledge Base articles](#knowledge-base-articles)

## Basics

>caption To use a Telerik Date Picker for Blazor, add the `TelerikDatePicker` tag.

>caption Basic date picker with namespace and reference

````CSHTML
The selected date is: @datePickerValue.ToShortDateString()
<br />

<TelerikDatePicker @bind-Value="datePickerValue" @ref="theDatePicker"></TelerikDatePicker>

@code  {
    DateTime datePickerValue { get; set; } = DateTime.Now;

    Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikDatePicker<DateTime> theDatePicker;
    // the type of the component depends on the type of the value
    // in this case it is DateTime, but it could be DateTime?
}
````

![Blazor Date Picker App Example](images/datepicker-first-look.png)

## Features

The Blazor Date Picker component exposes the following features:

*  `BottomView` - Defines the bottommost view in the popup calendar to which the user can navigate to. Defaults to `CalendarView.Month`.
* `DisabledDates` - Specifies a list of dates that can not be selected.
* `Class` - The custom CSS class rendered on the wrapping element.
* `PopupClass` - additional CSS class to customize the appearance of the Date Picker's dropdown.
* `Enabled` - Specifies whether typing in the input is allowed.
* `Format` - Specifies the format of the DateInput of the DatePicker. [Read more about supported data formats in Telerik DateInput for Blazor UI]({%slug components/dateinput/supported-formats%}) article.
* `Id` - renders as the `id` attribute on the `<input />` element, so you can attach a `<label for="">` to the input.
* `Min` - The earliest date that the user can select.
* `Max` - The latest date that the user can select.
* `PopupHeight` - Defines the height of the DatePicker's Popup. Defaults to `auto`.
* `PopupWidth` - Defines the width of the DatePicker's Popup. Defaults to `auto`.
* `Value` - The current value of the input. Can be used for binding.
* `View` - Specifies the current view that will be displayed in the popup calendar.
* `Width` - Defines the width of the DatePicker. Defaults to `280px`.
* Validation - see the [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%}) article.

The date picker is, essentially, a [date input]({%slug components/dateinput/overview%}) and a [calendar]({%slug components/calendar/overview%}) and the properties it exposes are mapped to the corresponding properties of these two components. You can read more about their behavior in the respective components' documentation.

## Additional Resources

An offline instance of our demos can be found under the installation folder of our product on your computer. 

### Knowledge Base articles

* [Increase the size of the DatePicker's popup to fit the content]({%slug datepicker-kb-resize-popup%})

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common-kb/date-input-pickers/kb-articles.md#common-kb-articles)



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Date Picker](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/datepicker/index)
  * [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%})
  * [Supported Input Date Formats]({%slug components/dateinput/supported-formats%})
  * [API Reference](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/api/Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikDatePicker-1)
