components/grid/grouping/aggregates.md, before:

---
title: Aggregates
page_title: Grid - Aggregates
description: Enable and configure field aggregates in Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-aggregates
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,aggreagates,aggregate
published: True
previous_url: /components/grid/aggregates
position: 5
---

# Grid Aggregates

The Grid component provides built-in aggregates for column values based on [grouping]({%slug components/grid/features/grouping%}) and also a grand total row.

#### In this article:


* [Available Aggregate Functions](#available-aggregate-functions)
* [Where You Can Use Aggregates](#where-you-can-use-aggregates)
* [How to Enable Aggregates](#how-to-enable-aggregates)
* [Example](#example)
* [Notes](#notes)

## Available Aggregate Functions

There are several available aggregate functions under the `Telerik.Blazor.GridAggregateType` enum:

* `Average`
* `Count`
* `Max`
* `Min`
* `Sum`

The `Count` aggregate can be applied to any type of field. The other aggregates can only be applied to numerical fields (e.g., `int`, `decimal`, `double`, etc.).

## Where You Can Use Aggregates

You can use aggregates in the following templates:

* [`GroupFooterTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-column-group-footer%}) of a `GridColumn` - a footer in the respective column that renders when the grid is grouped.
* [`GroupHeaderTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-group-header%}) of a `GridColumn` - a header in the respective column that renders when the grid is grouped by that column. The `Value` field in the context carries the current group value.
* [`FooterTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-column-footer%}) of a `GridColumn` - a grand total row of footers for the entire grid.

## How to Enable Aggregates

To enable aggregates:

1. Under the `GridAggregates` tag, define the `GridAggregate` entries to enable the aggregations per field you want to use.
1. Use the aggregate result in the templates that support it - their `context` is strongly typed and carries the aggregate values in the respective fields.
1. Set the grid's `Groupable` property to `true`.
    * If you will be using only `FooterTemplate`s - grouping is not required.
1. Group the grid to see the effect on group-specific templates



## Example

>caption Use Aggregates in the Telerik Blazor Grid

````CSHTML
Enable and use aggregates. To see the full effect, group by a column - "Team" and then "Active Projects".

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Groupable="true" Pageable="true" Height="700px">
    <GridAggregates>
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Count" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Count" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Max" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Sum" />
    </GridAggregates>
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) Groupable="false">
            <FooterTemplate>
                Total: @context.Count employees.
                <br />
                @{
                    // you can use aggregates for other fields/columns by extracting the desired one by its
                    // field name and aggregate function from the AggregateResults collection
                    // The type of its Value is determined by the type of its field - decimal for the Salary field here
                    decimal salaries = (decimal)context.AggregateResults
                        .FirstOrDefault(r => r.AggregateMethodName == "Sum" && r.Member == "Salary")?.Value;
                }
                Total salaries: @salaries.ToString("C0")
            </FooterTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team">
            <GroupFooterTemplate>
                Team Members: <strong>@context.Count</strong>
            </GroupFooterTemplate>
            <GroupHeaderTemplate>
                @context.Value @* the default text you would get without the template *@
                &nbsp;<span>Team size: @context.Count</span>
            </GroupHeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Title="Salary" Groupable="false">
            <GroupFooterTemplate>
                @* you can use a group footer for non-groupable columns as well *@
                Total salaries: @context.Sum
                <br />
                <span style="color: red;">Highest: @context.Max</span>
            </GroupFooterTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.ActiveProjects) Title="Active Projects">
            <GroupHeaderTemplate>
                @{
                    <span>Currently active projects: @context.Value &nbsp;</span>

                    //sample of conditional logic in the group header
                    if ((int)context.Value > 3) // in a real case, you may want to ensure type safety and add defensive checks
                    {
                        <strong style="color: red;">These people work on too many projects</strong>
                    }
                }
            </GroupHeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        var rand = new Random();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            Random rnd = new Random();
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3,
                Salary = rnd.Next(1000, 5000),
                ActiveProjects = i % 4 == 0 ? 2 : 5
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public decimal Salary { get; set; }
        public int ActiveProjects { get; set; }
    }
}
````

>caption The result of the code snippet above after the grid has been grouped by the `Team` and `Active Projects` columns

![](images/grid-aggregates-overview.png)



## Notes 

* You should define only aggregates that you will use to avoid unnecessary calculations that may be noticeable on large data sets.

* If you try to use an aggregate that is not defined, or an aggregate over an unsupported field type, a runtime error will be thrown.

* If you update a field of a model the `Data` collection in the view-model, aggregates will not be updated automatically - the grid needs to re-evaluate that data first, and since this is an expensive operation a UI render does not trigger it. You can [update the data collection]({%slug grid-refresh-data%}) yourself, or fetching it anew from the service (example [here]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}), see how the Create/Update/Delete events fetch data anew).

* If you use [`OnRead`]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}), the Grid will calculate aggregates from the data on the current page only. It is still possible to [calculate and display aggregates, which are based on all the data]({%slug grid-templates-column-footer%}#notes).


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Grouping](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/grouping)

Commit message:

docs: Document aggregate FieldType (#624)
Co-authored-by: Dimo Dimov <dimo@Dimos-MacBook-Pro.local>

components/grid/grouping/aggregates.md, after:

---
title: Aggregates
page_title: Grid - Aggregates
description: Enable and configure field aggregates in Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-aggregates
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,aggreagates,aggregate
published: True
previous_url: /components/grid/aggregates
position: 5
---

# Grid Aggregates

The Grid component provides built-in aggregates for column values based on [grouping]({%slug components/grid/features/grouping%}) and also a grand total row.

#### In this article:


* [Available Aggregate Functions](#available-aggregate-functions)
* [Where You Can Use Aggregates](#where-you-can-use-aggregates)
* [How to Enable Aggregates](#how-to-enable-aggregates)
* [Example](#example)
* [Notes](#notes)

## Available Aggregate Functions

There are several available aggregate functions under the `Telerik.Blazor.GridAggregateType` enum:

* `Average`
* `Count`
* `Max`
* `Min`
* `Sum`

The `Count` aggregate can be applied to any type of field. The other aggregates can only be applied to numerical fields (e.g., `int`, `decimal`, `double`, etc.).

## Where You Can Use Aggregates

You can use aggregates in the following templates:

* [`GroupFooterTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-column-group-footer%}) of a `GridColumn` - a footer in the respective column that renders when the grid is grouped.
* [`GroupHeaderTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-group-header%}) of a `GridColumn` - a header in the respective column that renders when the grid is grouped by that column. The `Value` field in the context carries the current group value.
* [`FooterTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-column-footer%}) of a `GridColumn` - a grand total row of footers for the entire grid.

## How to Enable Aggregates

To enable aggregates:

1. Under the `GridAggregates` tag, define the `GridAggregate` entries to enable the aggregations per field you want to use.
1. If the Grid is bound to a dynamic object, set the `FieldType` attribute of the `GridAggregate` tag (it is of type `Type`).
1. Use the aggregate result in the templates that support it - their `context` is strongly typed and carries the aggregate values in the respective fields.
1. Set the grid's `Groupable` property to `true`.
    * If you will be using only `FooterTemplate`s - grouping is not required.
1. Group the grid to see the effect on group-specific templates


## Example

>caption Use Aggregates in the Telerik Blazor Grid

````CSHTML
Enable and use aggregates. To see the full effect, group by a column - "Team" and then "Active Projects".

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Groupable="true" Pageable="true" Height="700px">
    <GridAggregates>
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Count" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Count" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Max" />
        <GridAggregate Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Aggregate="@GridAggregateType.Sum" />
    </GridAggregates>
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) Groupable="false">
            <FooterTemplate>
                Total: @context.Count employees.
                <br />
                @{
                    // you can use aggregates for other fields/columns by extracting the desired one by its
                    // field name and aggregate function from the AggregateResults collection
                    // The type of its Value is determined by the type of its field - decimal for the Salary field here
                    decimal salaries = (decimal)context.AggregateResults
                        .FirstOrDefault(r => r.AggregateMethodName == "Sum" && r.Member == "Salary")?.Value;
                }
                Total salaries: @salaries.ToString("C0")
            </FooterTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team">
            <GroupFooterTemplate>
                Team Members: <strong>@context.Count</strong>
            </GroupFooterTemplate>
            <GroupHeaderTemplate>
                @context.Value @* the default text you would get without the template *@
                &nbsp;<span>Team size: @context.Count</span>
            </GroupHeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Salary) Title="Salary" Groupable="false">
            <GroupFooterTemplate>
                @* you can use a group footer for non-groupable columns as well *@
                Total salaries: @context.Sum
                <br />
                <span style="color: red;">Highest: @context.Max</span>
            </GroupFooterTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.ActiveProjects) Title="Active Projects">
            <GroupHeaderTemplate>
                @{
                    <span>Currently active projects: @context.Value &nbsp;</span>

                    //sample of conditional logic in the group header
                    if ((int)context.Value > 3) // in a real case, you may want to ensure type safety and add defensive checks
                    {
                        <strong style="color: red;">These people work on too many projects</strong>
                    }
                }
            </GroupHeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        var rand = new Random();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            Random rnd = new Random();
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3,
                Salary = rnd.Next(1000, 5000),
                ActiveProjects = i % 4 == 0 ? 2 : 5
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public decimal Salary { get; set; }
        public int ActiveProjects { get; set; }
    }
}
````

>caption The result of the code snippet above after the grid has been grouped by the `Team` and `Active Projects` columns

![](images/grid-aggregates-overview.png)



## Notes 

* You should define only aggregates that you will use to avoid unnecessary calculations that may be noticeable on large data sets.

* If you try to use an aggregate that is not defined, or an aggregate over an unsupported field type, a runtime error will be thrown.

* If you update a field of a model the `Data` collection in the view-model, aggregates will not be updated automatically - the grid needs to re-evaluate that data first, and since this is an expensive operation a UI render does not trigger it. You can [update the data collection]({%slug grid-refresh-data%}) yourself, or fetching it anew from the service (example [here]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}), see how the Create/Update/Delete events fetch data anew).

* If you use [`OnRead`]({%slug components/grid/manual-operations%}), the Grid will calculate aggregates from the data on the current page only. It is still possible to [calculate and display aggregates, which are based on all the data]({%slug grid-templates-column-footer%}#notes).


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Grouping](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/grouping)
