components/grid/selection/multiple.md, before:

---
title: Multiple Rows
page_title: Grid - Multiple Selection
description: Single row selection in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/multiple
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,multiple
published: True
position: 2
---

# Multiple Row Selection

The Grid component can allow the user to select many rows at a time, or to select [only one]({%slug components/grid/selection/single %}).

In this article:

* [Basics](#basics)
* [Checkbox Selection](#checkbox-selection)
* [Selected Items](#selected-items)
* [Examples](#examples)
	* [Multiple Row Selection and Checkbox](#multiple-row-selection-and-checkbox)
	* [SelectedItemsChanged Event](#selecteditemschanged-event)
	* [Two-way Binding of SelectedItems](#two-way-binding-of-selecteditems)


## Basics

To use **multiple** row selection, set the `SelectionMode` property to `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode.Multiple`.

In Multiple SelectionMode, you can select rows through the following approaches:

* Click on a row to select only that row (and deselect any others)
* Press and hold `Ctrl` and click the desired rows to select or deselect them.
* Click on the starting row in a range of rows that you want to select, press and hold `Shift`, and click on the last row in the range. The first selected item is the start point of the range and the last selected target row is the end of the selection.
* Select the checkbox of each desired row.

>tip The [Examples](#examples) section showcases how you can use the grid features together.

## Checkbox Selection

To add checkboxes in each row, add a `GridCheckboxColumn` in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid. The user can select the desired rows through the checkboxes.

The Grid allows selection and deselection via the `SelectAll` property. Setting this property to `true` (its default value) will render a checkbox in the grid header.

You can add a `SelectAllMode` parameter, which supports the following options:
* `Current` - selects all rows on the current page. This also applies to filtered, sorted, etc. This is the default value of the `SelectAllMode`.
* `All` - selects all the data in the Grid.
    >note  If IQueriable collections are used, using the header checkbox with an `All` option will immediately execute the query over all the data. This may be a performance hit.

`SelectAllMode` behavior with [Virtual Scrolling]({%slug components/grid/virtual-scrolling%}):
* No `OnRead` configured (the default state):
  * `Current` - current `PageSize` items will be selected
  * `All` - all items in the Data will be selected
* `OnRead` configured:
  * `Current` and `All` will share the same behavior - the current data set (page) will be selected only, as this is the only available data.

**Usage:**

````CSHTML
<GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="true" SelectAllMode="GridSelectAllMode.Current">
</GridCheckboxColumn>
````

## Selected Items

The `SelectedItemsChanged` event receives a collection of the grid data model. It may have no items in it.

You can use the `SelectedItems` collection in two-way binding. You can use this to pre-select rows for your users.

The `SelectedItems` collection persists across paging operations. Changing the page will keep it populated and you can add more items to the selection.

## Examples

### Multiple Row Selection and Checkbox

You can add a checkbox column for selection. It is required if the `InCell` edit mode is used. Otherwise, it is optional.

>caption Multiple Selection and a checkbox column.

````CSHTML
You can select items by clicking a checkbox, or by clicking the rows. The Ctrl and Shift keys let you select more than one row when clicking it.

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### SelectedItemsChanged Event

You can respond to the user action of selecting a new item through the `SelectedItemsChanged` event.

>caption Multiple Selection and handling the SelectedItemsChanged event

````CSHTML
@*Show details for selected items via the selection changed event*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             SelectedItemsChanged="@((IEnumerable<Employee> employeeList) => OnSelect(employeeList))"
             SelectedItems="@SelectedEmployees"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (SelectedEmployees != null)
{
    <ul>
        @foreach (Employee employee in SelectedEmployees)
        {
            <li>
                @employee.Name
            </li>
        }
    </ul>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedEmployees { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    protected void OnSelect(IEnumerable<Employee> employees)
    {
        SelectedEmployees = employees;
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/issues-and-warnings.md#valuechanged-lambda-required)

### Two-way Binding of SelectedItems

You can predefine the selected items for your users through the two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property. The collection will be updated by the grid when the selection changes. Note that both binding to the property and using its event cannot be used at the same time, as Blazor only allows one.

>caption Multiple Selection and two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property

````CSHTML
@*Use the selected items collection*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             @bind-SelectedItems="SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (SelectedItems != null)
{
    <ul>
        @foreach (Employee employee in SelectedItems)
        {
            <li>
                @employee.Name
            </li>
        }
    </ul>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // select Employee with 3 through 5. Not required
        SelectedItems = GridData.Skip(2).Take(3).ToList();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Single Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
  * [Sample Project: Select Across Pages](https://github.com/telerik/blazor-ui/tree/master/grid/persist-selection)

Commit message:

docs(grid): checkbox only selection (#230)
* docs(grid): checkbox only selection

* docs(treelist): checkbox-only selection

components/grid/selection/multiple.md, after:

---
title: Multiple Rows
page_title: Grid - Multiple Selection
description: Single row selection in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/multiple
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,multiple
published: True
position: 2
---

# Multiple Row Selection

The Grid component can allow the user to select many rows at a time, or to select [only one]({%slug components/grid/selection/single %}).

In this article:

* [Basics](#basics)
* [Checkbox Selection](#checkbox-selection)
* [Selected Items](#selected-items)
* [Examples](#examples)
	* [Multiple Row Selection and Checkbox](#multiple-row-selection-and-checkbox)
	* [SelectedItemsChanged Event](#selecteditemschanged-event)
	* [Two-way Binding of SelectedItems](#two-way-binding-of-selecteditems)


## Basics

To use **multiple** row selection, set the `SelectionMode` property to `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode.Multiple`.

In Multiple SelectionMode, you can select rows through the following approaches:

* Click on a row to select only that row (and deselect any others)
* Press and hold `Ctrl` and click the desired rows to select or deselect them.
* Click on the starting row in a range of rows that you want to select, press and hold `Shift`, and click on the last row in the range. The first selected item is the start point of the range and the last selected target row is the end of the selection.
* Select the checkbox of each desired row.

>tip The [Examples](#examples) section showcases how you can use the grid features together.

## Checkbox Selection

To add checkboxes in each row, add a `GridCheckboxColumn` in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid. The user can select the desired rows through the checkboxes.

You can force selection to happen only through the checkboxes by setting the `CheckBoxOnlySelection` parameter of the `GridCheckboxColumn` to `true`.

The Grid allows selection and deselection via the `SelectAll` property. Setting this property to `true` (its default value) will render a checkbox in the grid header.

You can add a `SelectAllMode` parameter, which supports the following options:
* `Current` - selects all rows on the current page. This also applies to filtered, sorted, etc. This is the default value of the `SelectAllMode`.
* `All` - selects all the data in the Grid.
    >note  If IQueriable collections are used, using the header checkbox with an `All` option will immediately execute the query over all the data. This may be a performance hit.

`SelectAllMode` behavior with [Virtual Scrolling]({%slug components/grid/virtual-scrolling%}):
* No `OnRead` configured (the default state):
  * `Current` - current `PageSize` items will be selected
  * `All` - all items in the Data will be selected
* `OnRead` configured:
  * `Current` and `All` will share the same behavior - the current data set (page) will be selected only, as this is the only available data.

**Usage:**

````CSHTML
<GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="true" SelectAllMode="GridSelectAllMode.Current">
</GridCheckboxColumn>
````

## Selected Items

The `SelectedItemsChanged` event receives a collection of the grid data model. It may have no items in it.

You can use the `SelectedItems` collection in two-way binding. You can use this to pre-select rows for your users.

The `SelectedItems` collection persists across paging operations. Changing the page will keep it populated and you can add more items to the selection.

## Examples

### Multiple Row Selection and Checkbox

You can add a checkbox column for selection. It is required if the `InCell` edit mode is used. Otherwise, it is optional.

>caption Multiple Selection and a checkbox column.

````CSHTML
You can select items by clicking a checkbox, or by clicking the rows. The Ctrl and Shift keys let you select more than one row when clicking it.

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### SelectedItemsChanged Event

You can respond to the user action of selecting a new item through the `SelectedItemsChanged` event.

>caption Multiple Selection and handling the SelectedItemsChanged event

````CSHTML
@*Show details for selected items via the selection changed event*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             SelectedItemsChanged="@((IEnumerable<Employee> employeeList) => OnSelect(employeeList))"
             SelectedItems="@SelectedEmployees"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (SelectedEmployees != null)
{
    <ul>
        @foreach (Employee employee in SelectedEmployees)
        {
            <li>
                @employee.Name
            </li>
        }
    </ul>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedEmployees { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    protected void OnSelect(IEnumerable<Employee> employees)
    {
        SelectedEmployees = employees;
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/issues-and-warnings.md#valuechanged-lambda-required)

### Two-way Binding of SelectedItems

You can predefine the selected items for your users through the two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property. The collection will be updated by the grid when the selection changes. Note that both binding to the property and using its event cannot be used at the same time, as Blazor only allows one.

>caption Multiple Selection and two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property

````CSHTML
@*Use the selected items collection*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             @bind-SelectedItems="SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (SelectedItems != null)
{
    <ul>
        @foreach (Employee employee in SelectedItems)
        {
            <li>
                @employee.Name
            </li>
        }
    </ul>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // select Employee with 3 through 5. Not required
        SelectedItems = GridData.Skip(2).Take(3).ToList();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Single Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
  * [Sample Project: Select Across Pages](https://github.com/telerik/blazor-ui/tree/master/grid/persist-selection)
