components/grid/selection/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Grid - Selection Overview
description: Selection basics in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Grid Selection

The Grid component offers support for row selection.

In this article:

* [Selection Basics](#selection-basics)
	* [Example - Enable Row Selection](#example---enable-row-selection)
	* [Example - Select rows with checkboxes only](#example---select-rows-with-checkboxes-only)
* [Notes](#notes)
	* [Editing Modes](#editing-modes)
	* [Selection in Template](#selection-in-template)
	* [Asynchronous Operations](#asynchronous-operations)
	* [SelectedItems Equals Comparison](#selecteditems-equals-comparison)
	* [Handle Data Changes](#handle-data-changes)
    * [Selection in Grid with virtualized rows](#selection-in-grid-with-virtualized-rows)
    * [Row Drag and Drop](#row-drag-and-drop)


## Selection Basics

You can configure the selection behavior by setting `SelectionMode` to a member of the `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode` enum. The row selection can be:

* `None` - (the default value) to disable row selection
* [Single]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
* [Multiple]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})

To select a row, click on it. To select multiple rows, hold down the `Ctrl` or `Shift` key to extend the selection.

You can also use a checkbox column to select rows. To use it, add a `GridCheckboxColumn` in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid. It works with both selection modes.  With multiple selection mode, the checkbox column offers [additional functionality]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}#checkbox-selection).

By default, clicking anywhere on the row will select it, but you can require the user to activate the checkbox in the select column to select the row by setting its `CheckBoxOnlySelection` parameter to `true`.

You can get or set the selected items through the `SelectedItems` property. It is a collection of items from the Grid's `Data`.

The [single selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%}) and [multiple selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}) articles provide more examples and details on using the grid features.

### Example - Enable Row Selection

````CSHTML
See how the row selection modes work

<select @bind=@selectionMode>
    <option value=@GridSelectionMode.Single>Single</option>
    <option value=@GridSelectionMode.Multiple>Multiple</option>
</select>

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@selectionMode"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="@( selectionMode == GridSelectionMode.Single ? false : true )" Title="Select" Width="70px" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    GridSelectionMode selectionMode = GridSelectionMode.Single;

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### Example - Select rows with checkboxes only

````CSHTML
@* Require clicks on the checkboxes for row selection*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Navigable="true"
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn CheckBoxOnlySelection="true" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````


## Notes

### Editing Modes

#### InCell Edit Mode

In the [Incell EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/incell%}) selection can be applied only via a checkbox column (`<GridCheckboxColumn />`). This is required due to the overlapping action that triggers selection and InCell editing (clicking in the row) - if row click selection was enabled with InCell editing, each attempt to select a row would put a cell in edit mode; and each attempt to edit a cell would select a new row. Such user experience is confusing, and so selection will only work through the row selection checkbox.

To see how to select the row that is being edited in InCell edit mode without using a `<GridCheckboxColumn />` check out the [Row Selection in Edit with InCell EditMode]({%slug grid-kb-row-select-incell-edit%}) Knowledge Base article.

#### Inline and PopUp Edit Modes

In [Inline EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/inline%}) and [PopUp EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/popup%}) selection can be done by clicking on the desired row or by using a `<GridCheckboxColumn />`.

### Selection in Template

When using the Grid [Template](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/grid/templates) and you want to stop the Selection from being triggered when the user clicks in it, you should add the `@onclick:stopPropagation` directive to the element.

>caption Prevent row selection from happening when the user clicks inside a template

````CSHTML
<GridColumn Field=@nameof(Product.ProductId) Title="Id">
    <Template>
        <span @onclick:stopPropagation>
            <TelerikNumericTextBox Value="@((context as Product).ProductId)"></TelerikNumericTextBox>
        </span>
    </Template>
</GridColumn>
````

If you are using the [Row Template]({%slug components/grid/features/templates%}#row-template), the grid cannot render selection checkboxes for you, so you have to bind them yourself to a field in the model, and handle their selection changed event to populate the `SelectedItems` collection of the grid. You can find an example to get started in the following thread: [Grid Row Template with Selection - Unsure how to Bind to Selected Item](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1463819-grid-row-template-with-selection-unsure-how-to-bind-to-selected-item)

### Asynchronous Operations

Asynchronous operations such as loading data on demand should be handled in the [`OnRowClick`]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowclick) or [`OnRowDoubleClick`]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowdoubleclick) events rather than in the [`SelectedItemsChanged`]({%slug grid-events%}#selecteditemschanged).

### SelectedItems Equals Comparison

The `SelectedItems` collection is compared against the Grid `Data` collection in order to determine which rows will be highlighted. The default behavior of the framework is to compare objects by their reference.

When the `SelectedItems` are obtained from a different data source to the Grid (e.g., from a separate service method and not from the view-model), the references may not match and so there will be no highlighted items. In such cases, you have to override the `Equals` method of the underlying model class so that it matches them, for example, by a unique identifier rather than by reference so that two objects can be equal regardless of their origin, but according to their contents. A similar example is available in the [Initiate Editing or Inserting of an Item]({%slug grid-state%}#initiate-editing-or-inserting-of-an-item) example for the Grid State where a similar scenario exists for items deserialized from the state.

### Handle Data Changes

When the grid `Data` collection changes, the `SelectedItems` collection has the following behavior:

* If the Grid does *not* use an `ObservableCollection` for its `Data` - The `SelectedItems` collection will be preserved. You need to clear or manipulate it when the data is changed according to your needs and business logic.

    * If you update or delete an item, you must make the same update in the selected items through the grid [editing events]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}).

* When using an `ObservableCollection` for the grid `Data`- If an item is removed or the entire data is cleared using the collection's `.Clear()` method, it will automatically update the `SelectedItems` collection too (the removed Data items will be removed from the Selected Items collection).

    * The other CRUD operations (Create and Update), you should use the grid [editing events]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}) to handle the situation according to your business logic and preferred behavior.
    * When the data changes and the selected items are cleared, the `SelectedItemsChanged` event will fire with the empty collection. If you are using two-way binding, the collection will be cleared.
    
### Selection in Grid with virtualized rows

When the Grid has [virtualized rows]({%slug components/grid/virtual-scrolling%}) and the `SelectionMode` is set to [`Multiple`]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}) the selectable items will be the one in the current set of items (page). If you select an item and scroll down to some of the ones that are not rendered yet (virtualiation kicks in) and you want to select that range with the `Shift` button, the selection will start from the position of the first item of the current set (page) to the last selected item.

### Row Drag and Drop

If the user drags selected rows, the current row selection will be cleared on row drop.


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Single Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
  * [Multiple Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})

Commit message:

docs: Add KB for centering the checkbox column (#611)
* docs: Add KB for centering the checkbox column

* chore: add link in TreeList selection article

Co-authored-by: Dimo Dimov <dimo@Dimos-MacBook-Pro.local>

components/grid/selection/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Grid - Selection Overview
description: Selection basics in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Grid Selection

The Grid component offers support for row selection.

In this article:

* [Selection Basics](#selection-basics)
	* [Example - Enable Row Selection](#example---enable-row-selection)
	* [Example - Select rows with checkboxes only](#example---select-rows-with-checkboxes-only)
* [Notes](#notes)
	* [Editing Modes](#editing-modes)
	* [Selection in Template](#selection-in-template)
	* [Asynchronous Operations](#asynchronous-operations)
	* [SelectedItems Equals Comparison](#selecteditems-equals-comparison)
	* [Handle Data Changes](#handle-data-changes)
    * [Selection in Grid with virtualized rows](#selection-in-grid-with-virtualized-rows)
    * [Row Drag and Drop](#row-drag-and-drop)


## Selection Basics

You can configure the selection behavior by setting `SelectionMode` to a member of the `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode` enum. The row selection can be:

* `None` - (the default value) to disable row selection
* [Single]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
* [Multiple]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})

To select a row, click on it. To select multiple rows, hold down the `Ctrl` or `Shift` key to extend the selection.

You can also use a checkbox column to select rows. To use it, add a `GridCheckboxColumn` in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid. It works with both selection modes.  With multiple selection mode, the checkbox column offers [additional functionality]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}#checkbox-selection).

By default, clicking anywhere on the row will select it, but you can require the user to activate the checkbox in the select column to select the row by setting its `CheckBoxOnlySelection` parameter to `true`.

It is also possible to [center the checkboxes in the `GridCheckboxColumn`]({%slug grid-kb-center-checkbox-column%}).

You can get or set the selected items through the `SelectedItems` property. It is a collection of items from the Grid's `Data`.

The [single selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%}) and [multiple selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}) articles provide more examples and details on using the grid features.

### Example - Enable Row Selection

````CSHTML
See how the row selection modes work

<select @bind=@selectionMode>
    <option value=@GridSelectionMode.Single>Single</option>
    <option value=@GridSelectionMode.Multiple>Multiple</option>
</select>

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@selectionMode"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="@( selectionMode == GridSelectionMode.Single ? false : true )" Title="Select" Width="70px" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    GridSelectionMode selectionMode = GridSelectionMode.Single;

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### Example - Select rows with checkboxes only

````CSHTML
@* Require clicks on the checkboxes for row selection*@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData Navigable="true"
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Multiple"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn CheckBoxOnlySelection="true" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````


## Notes

### Editing Modes

#### InCell Edit Mode

In the [Incell EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/incell%}) selection can be applied only via a checkbox column (`<GridCheckboxColumn />`). This is required due to the overlapping action that triggers selection and InCell editing (clicking in the row) - if row click selection was enabled with InCell editing, each attempt to select a row would put a cell in edit mode; and each attempt to edit a cell would select a new row. Such user experience is confusing, and so selection will only work through the row selection checkbox.

To see how to select the row that is being edited in InCell edit mode without using a `<GridCheckboxColumn />` check out the [Row Selection in Edit with InCell EditMode]({%slug grid-kb-row-select-incell-edit%}) Knowledge Base article.

#### Inline and PopUp Edit Modes

In [Inline EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/inline%}) and [PopUp EditMode]({%slug components/grid/editing/popup%}) selection can be done by clicking on the desired row or by using a `<GridCheckboxColumn />`.

### Selection in Template

When using the Grid [Template](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/grid/templates) and you want to stop the Selection from being triggered when the user clicks in it, you should add the `@onclick:stopPropagation` directive to the element.

>caption Prevent row selection from happening when the user clicks inside a template

````CSHTML
<GridColumn Field=@nameof(Product.ProductId) Title="Id">
    <Template>
        <span @onclick:stopPropagation>
            <TelerikNumericTextBox Value="@((context as Product).ProductId)"></TelerikNumericTextBox>
        </span>
    </Template>
</GridColumn>
````

If you are using the [Row Template]({%slug components/grid/features/templates%}#row-template), the grid cannot render selection checkboxes for you, so you have to bind them yourself to a field in the model, and handle their selection changed event to populate the `SelectedItems` collection of the grid. You can find an example to get started in the following thread: [Grid Row Template with Selection - Unsure how to Bind to Selected Item](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1463819-grid-row-template-with-selection-unsure-how-to-bind-to-selected-item)

### Asynchronous Operations

Asynchronous operations such as loading data on demand should be handled in the [`OnRowClick`]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowclick) or [`OnRowDoubleClick`]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowdoubleclick) events rather than in the [`SelectedItemsChanged`]({%slug grid-events%}#selecteditemschanged).

### SelectedItems Equals Comparison

The `SelectedItems` collection is compared against the Grid `Data` collection in order to determine which rows will be highlighted. The default behavior of the framework is to compare objects by their reference.

When the `SelectedItems` are obtained from a different data source to the Grid (e.g., from a separate service method and not from the view-model), the references may not match and so there will be no highlighted items. In such cases, you have to override the `Equals` method of the underlying model class so that it matches them, for example, by a unique identifier rather than by reference so that two objects can be equal regardless of their origin, but according to their contents. A similar example is available in the [Initiate Editing or Inserting of an Item]({%slug grid-state%}#initiate-editing-or-inserting-of-an-item) example for the Grid State where a similar scenario exists for items deserialized from the state.

### Handle Data Changes

When the grid `Data` collection changes, the `SelectedItems` collection has the following behavior:

* If the Grid does *not* use an `ObservableCollection` for its `Data` - The `SelectedItems` collection will be preserved. You need to clear or manipulate it when the data is changed according to your needs and business logic.

    * If you update or delete an item, you must make the same update in the selected items through the grid [editing events]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}).

* When using an `ObservableCollection` for the grid `Data`- If an item is removed or the entire data is cleared using the collection's `.Clear()` method, it will automatically update the `SelectedItems` collection too (the removed Data items will be removed from the Selected Items collection).

    * The other CRUD operations (Create and Update), you should use the grid [editing events]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}) to handle the situation according to your business logic and preferred behavior.
    * When the data changes and the selected items are cleared, the `SelectedItemsChanged` event will fire with the empty collection. If you are using two-way binding, the collection will be cleared.
    
### Selection in Grid with virtualized rows

When the Grid has [virtualized rows]({%slug components/grid/virtual-scrolling%}) and the `SelectionMode` is set to [`Multiple`]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%}) the selectable items will be the one in the current set of items (page). If you select an item and scroll down to some of the ones that are not rendered yet (virtualiation kicks in) and you want to select that range with the `Shift` button, the selection will start from the position of the first item of the current set (page) to the last selected item.

### Row Drag and Drop

If the user drags selected rows, the current row selection will be cleared on row drop.


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Single Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/single%})
  * [Multiple Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})
