components/grid/selection/single.md, before:

---
title: Single Row
page_title: Grid - Single Selection
description: Single row selection in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/single
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,single
published: True
position: 1
---

# Single Row Selection

The Grid component can allow the user to select only a single row at a time, or to select [multiple]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple %}).

In this article:


* [Basics](#basics)
* [Checkbox Selection](#checkbox-selection)
* [Selected Items](#selected-items)
* [Examples](#examples)
	* [Single Row Selection and Checkbox](#single-row-selection-and-checkbox)
	* [SelectedItemsChanged Event](#selecteditemschanged-event)
	* [Two-way Binding of SelectedItems](#two-way-binding-of-selecteditems)


## Basics

To use **single** row selection, set the `SelectionMode` property to `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode.Single`.

To un-select the item, click its checkbox again, or hold the `Ctrl` key and click/tap the row.

>tip The [Examples](#examples) section showcases how you can use the grid features together.

## Checkbox Selection

In Single SelectionMode, selection is applied with a click on a row, or by clicking a checkbox if the `GridCheckboxColumn` is present in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid.

Only one row can be selected at a time, even with checkboxes enabled, so the last one that is clicked will be selected.

If you add a checkbox column, you should set its `SelectAll` parameter to `false` to disable the header checkbox that will select all rows.

## Selected Items

The `SelectedItemsChanged` event receives a collection of the grid data model that has one member only.

You can use the `SelectedItems` collection in two-way binding. You can use this to pre-select a row for your users.

The `SelectedItems` collection persists across paging operations. Changing the page will keep it populated.

If the collection has more than one item in it, the grid will use the last item to select the row in single selection mode.

## Examples

### Single Row Selection and Checkbox

You can add a checkbox column for single selection. It is required if the `InCell` edit mode is used. Otherwise, it is optional.

>caption Single Selection and a checkbox column.

````CSHTML
Single selection can be done by clicking a row or through a checkbox

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Single"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="false" Title="Select" Width="70px" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### SelectedItemsChanged Event

You can respond to the user action of selecting a new item through the `SelectedItemsChanged` event.

The example below shows how to handle the `SelectedItemsChanged` event to extract information about the selected item and use it to populate a second grid with details about the selected record.

>tip If you want to load that data on demand, you should use the [OnRowClick event]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowclick).

>caption Single Selection and handling the SelectedItemsChanged event

````CSHTML
@* Use the selection change event to show detail data *@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Single"
             SelectedItemsChanged="@((IEnumerable<Employee> employeeList) => OnSelect(employeeList))"
             SelectedItems="@SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="300px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (TeamMatesList != null)
{
    <h6>@SelectedEmployee.Team</h6>
    <TelerikGrid Data="@TeamMatesList">
        <GridColumns>
            <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        </GridColumns>
    </TelerikGrid>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    public Employee SelectedEmployee { get; set; }
    public List<Employee> TeamMatesList { get; set; }

    protected void OnSelect(IEnumerable<Employee> employees)
    {
        SelectedEmployee = employees.FirstOrDefault();
        // update the collection so that the grid can highlight the correct item
        // when two-way binding is used this happens automatically, but the framework does not allow two-way binding and the event at the same time
        SelectedItems = new List<Employee> { SelectedEmployee };

        GetChildGridData(); // note: an async operation here can break the selection and may not even render its results in the view
        // for async operations, use the OnRowClick event
    }

    void GetChildGridData()
    {
        if (TeamMatesList == null)
        {
            TeamMatesList = new List<Employee>();
        }
        TeamMatesList.Clear();
        TeamMatesList = GridData.Where(empl => empl.Team == SelectedEmployee.Team).ToList();
    }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {

        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // add default selection and execute its logic. Not required
        SelectedItems = new List<Employee> { GridData.FirstOrDefault() };
        SelectedEmployee = GridData.FirstOrDefault();
        GetChildGridData();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/issues-and-warnings.md#valuechanged-lambda-required)

### Two-way Binding of SelectedItems

You can predefine the selected item for your users through the two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property. The collection will be updated by the grid when the selection changes. Note that both binding to the property and using its event cannot be used at the same time, as Blazor only allows one.

>caption Single Selection and two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property

````CSHTML
Selected item: @SelectedItems.FirstOrDefault().Name

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Single"
             @bind-SelectedItems="@SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // select Employee with ID 4
        SelectedItems = GridData.Where(item => item.EmployeeId == 4).ToList();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Multiple Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})

Commit message:

docs(grid): checkbox only selection

components/grid/selection/single.md, after:

---
title: Single Row
page_title: Grid - Single Selection
description: Single row selection in the Grid for Blazor.
slug: components/grid/selection/single
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,selection,single
published: True
position: 1
---

# Single Row Selection

The Grid component can allow the user to select only a single row at a time, or to select [multiple]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple %}).

In this article:


* [Basics](#basics)
* [Checkbox Selection](#checkbox-selection)
* [Selected Items](#selected-items)
* [Examples](#examples)
	* [Single Row Selection and Checkbox](#single-row-selection-and-checkbox)
	* [SelectedItemsChanged Event](#selecteditemschanged-event)
	* [Two-way Binding of SelectedItems](#two-way-binding-of-selecteditems)


## Basics

To use **single** row selection, set the `SelectionMode` property to `Telerik.Blazor.GridSelectionMode.Single`.

To un-select the item, click its checkbox again, or hold the `Ctrl` key and click/tap the row.

>tip The [Examples](#examples) section showcases how you can use the grid features together.

## Checkbox Selection

In Single SelectionMode, selection is applied with a click on a row, or by clicking a checkbox if the `GridCheckboxColumn` is present in the `GridColumns` collection of the grid.

Only one row can be selected at a time, even with checkboxes enabled, so the last one that is clicked will be selected.

You can force selection to happen only through the checkboxes by setting the `CheckBoxOnlySelection` parameter of the `GridCheckboxColumn` to `true`.

If you add a checkbox column, you should set its `SelectAll` parameter to `false` to disable the header checkbox that will select all rows.

## Selected Items

The `SelectedItemsChanged` event receives a collection of the grid data model that has one member only.

You can use the `SelectedItems` collection in two-way binding. You can use this to pre-select a row for your users.

The `SelectedItems` collection persists across paging operations. Changing the page will keep it populated.

If the collection has more than one item in it, the grid will use the last item to select the row in single selection mode.

## Examples

### Single Row Selection and Checkbox

You can add a checkbox column for single selection. It is required if the `InCell` edit mode is used. Otherwise, it is optional.

>caption Single Selection and a checkbox column.

````CSHTML
Single selection can be done by clicking a row or through a checkbox

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Single"
             Pageable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridCheckboxColumn SelectAll="false" Title="Select" Width="70px" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

### SelectedItemsChanged Event

You can respond to the user action of selecting a new item through the `SelectedItemsChanged` event.

The example below shows how to handle the `SelectedItemsChanged` event to extract information about the selected item and use it to populate a second grid with details about the selected record.

>tip If you want to load that data on demand, you should use the [OnRowClick event]({%slug grid-events%}#onrowclick).

>caption Single Selection and handling the SelectedItemsChanged event

````CSHTML
@* Use the selection change event to show detail data *@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="GridSelectionMode.Single"
             SelectedItemsChanged="@((IEnumerable<Employee> employeeList) => OnSelect(employeeList))"
             SelectedItems="@SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="300px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@if (TeamMatesList != null)
{
    <h6>@SelectedEmployee.Team</h6>
    <TelerikGrid Data="@TeamMatesList">
        <GridColumns>
            <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        </GridColumns>
    </TelerikGrid>
}

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    public Employee SelectedEmployee { get; set; }
    public List<Employee> TeamMatesList { get; set; }

    protected void OnSelect(IEnumerable<Employee> employees)
    {
        SelectedEmployee = employees.FirstOrDefault();
        // update the collection so that the grid can highlight the correct item
        // when two-way binding is used this happens automatically, but the framework does not allow two-way binding and the event at the same time
        SelectedItems = new List<Employee> { SelectedEmployee };

        GetChildGridData(); // note: an async operation here can break the selection and may not even render its results in the view
        // for async operations, use the OnRowClick event
    }

    void GetChildGridData()
    {
        if (TeamMatesList == null)
        {
            TeamMatesList = new List<Employee>();
        }
        TeamMatesList.Clear();
        TeamMatesList = GridData.Where(empl => empl.Team == SelectedEmployee.Team).ToList();
    }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {

        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // add default selection and execute its logic. Not required
        SelectedItems = new List<Employee> { GridData.FirstOrDefault() };
        SelectedEmployee = GridData.FirstOrDefault();
        GetChildGridData();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/issues-and-warnings.md#valuechanged-lambda-required)

### Two-way Binding of SelectedItems

You can predefine the selected item for your users through the two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property. The collection will be updated by the grid when the selection changes. Note that both binding to the property and using its event cannot be used at the same time, as Blazor only allows one.

>caption Single Selection and two-way binding of the `SelectedItems` property

````CSHTML
Selected item: @SelectedItems.FirstOrDefault().Name

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             SelectionMode="@GridSelectionMode.Single"
             @bind-SelectedItems="@SelectedItems"
             Pageable="true"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Name) />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(Employee.Team) Title="Team" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    public List<Employee> GridData { get; set; }
    public IEnumerable<Employee> SelectedItems { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<Employee>();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Employee>();
        for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee()
            {
                EmployeeId = i,
                Name = "Employee " + i.ToString(),
                Team = "Team " + i % 3
            });
        }

        // select Employee with ID 4
        SelectedItems = GridData.Where(item => item.EmployeeId == 4).ToList();
    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
    }
}
````



## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Grid Selection](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/selection)
  * [Multiple Selection]({%slug components/grid/selection/multiple%})
