knowledge-base/common-icon-names-list.md, before:

---
title: Icon names list
description: Valid list of Icon names 
type: how-to
page_title: Icon names list
slug: common-kb-icon-names
position: 
tags: 
ticketid: 
res_type: kb
---

## Description

Since the `IconName` class is marked as obsolete and will soon be removed, below you will find a valid list of icon names to be hardcoded.

* IconName.Undo -> `undo`;
* IconName.Redo -> `redo`;
* IconName.Reset -> `reset`;
* IconName.Reload -> `reload`;
* IconName.NonRecurrence -> `non-recurrence`;
* IconName.ResetSm -> `reset-sm`;
* IconName.ReloadSm -> `reload-sm`;
* IconName.Clock -> `clock`;
* IconName.Calendar -> `calendar`;
* IconName.Save -> `save`;
* IconName.Print -> `print`;
* IconName.Edit -> `edit`;
* IconName.Delete -> `delete`;
* IconName.Attachment -> `attachment`;
* IconName.Attachment45 -> `attachment-45`;
* IconName.LinkHorizontal -> `link-horizontal`;
* IconName.UnlinkHorizontal -> `unlink-horizontal`;
* IconName.LinkVertical -> `link-vertical`;
* IconName.UnlinkVertical -> `unlink-vertical`;
* IconName.Lock -> `lock`;
* IconName.Unlock -> `unlock`;
* IconName.Cancel -> `cancel`;
* IconName.CancelOutline -> `cancel-outline`;
* IconName.CancelCircle -> `cancel-circle`;
* IconName.Check -> `check`;
* IconName.CheckOutline -> `check-outline`;
* IconName.CheckCircle -> `check-circle`;
* IconName.Close -> `close`;
* IconName.CloseOutline -> `close-outline`;
* IconName.CloseCircle -> `close-circle`;
* IconName.Plus -> `plus`;
* IconName.PlusOutline -> `plus-outline`;
* IconName.PlusCircle -> `plus-circle`;
* IconName.Minus -> `minus`;
* IconName.MinusOutline -> `minus-outline`;
* IconName.MinusCircle -> `minus-circle`;
* IconName.SortAsc -> `sort-asc`;
* IconName.SortDesc -> `sort-desc`;
* IconName.Unsort -> `unsort`;
* IconName.SortClear -> `sort-clear`;
* IconName.SortAscSm -> `sort-asc-sm`;
* IconName.SortDescSm -> `sort-desc-sm`;
* IconName.Filter -> `filter`;
* IconName.FilterClear -> `filter-clear`;
* IconName.FilterSm -> `filter-sm`;
* IconName.FilterSortAscSm -> `filter-sort-asc-sm`;
* IconName.FilterSortDescSm -> `filter-sort-desc-sm`;
* IconName.FilterAddExpression -> `filter-add-expression`;
* IconName.FilterAddGroup -> `filter-add-group`;
* IconName.Login -> `login`;
* IconName.Logout -> `logout`;
* IconName.Download -> `download`;
* IconName.Upload -> `upload`;
* IconName.HyperlinkOpen -> `hyperlink-open`;
* IconName.HyperlinkOpenSm -> `hyperlink-open-sm`;
* IconName.Launch -> `launch`;
* IconName.Window -> `window`;
* IconName.Windows -> `windows`;
* IconName.WindowMinimize -> `window-minimize`;
* IconName.Gear -> `gear`;
* IconName.Gears -> `gears`;
* IconName.Wrench -> `wrench`;
* IconName.Preview -> `preview`;
* IconName.Zoom -> `zoom`;
* IconName.ZoomIn -> `zoom-in`;
* IconName.ZoomOut -> `zoom-out`;
* IconName.Pan -> `pan`;
* IconName.Calculator -> `calculator`;
* IconName.Cart -> `cart`;
* IconName.Connector -> `connector`;
* IconName.PlusSm -> `plus-sm`;
* IconName.MinusSm -> `minus-sm`;
* IconName.KpiStatusDeny -> `kpi-status-deny`;
* IconName.KpiStatusHold -> `kpi-status-hold`;
* IconName.KpiStatusOpen -> `kpi-status-open`;
* IconName.Notification -> `notification`;
* IconName.Information -> `information`;
* IconName.Question -> `question`;
* IconName.Warning -> `warning`;
* IconName.PageProperties -> `page-properties`;
* IconName.Bold -> `bold`;
* IconName.Italic -> `italic`;
* IconName.Underline -> `underline`;
* IconName.FontFamily -> `font-family`;
* IconName.ForegroundColor -> `foreground-color`;
* IconName.ConvertLowercase -> `convert-lowercase`;
* IconName.ConvertUppercase -> `convert-uppercase`;
* IconName.Strikethrough -> `strikethrough`;
* IconName.SubScript -> `sub-script`;
* IconName.SupScript -> `sup-script`;
* IconName.Div -> `div`;
* IconName.All -> `all`;
* IconName.H1 -> `h1`;
* IconName.H2 -> `h2`;
* IconName.H3 -> `h3`;
* IconName.H4 -> `h4`;
* IconName.H5 -> `h5`;
* IconName.H6 -> `h6`;
* IconName.ListOrdered -> `list-ordered`;
* IconName.ListUnordered -> `list-unordered`;
* IconName.IndentIncrease -> `indent-increase`;
* IconName.IndentDecrease -> `indent-decrease`;
* IconName.InsertUp -> `insert-up`;
* IconName.InsertMiddle -> `insert-middle`;
* IconName.InsertDown -> `insert-down`;
* IconName.AlignTop -> `align-top`;
* IconName.AlignMiddle -> `align-middle`;
* IconName.AlignBottom -> `align-bottom`;
* IconName.AlignLeft -> `align-left`;
* IconName.AlignCenter -> `align-center`;
* IconName.AlignRight -> `align-right`;
* IconName.AlignJustify -> `align-justify`;
* IconName.AlignRemove -> `align-remove`;
* IconName.TextWrap -> `text-wrap`;
* IconName.RuleHorizontal -> `rule-horizontal`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopLeft -> `table-align-top-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopCenter -> `table-align-top-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopRight -> `table-align-top-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleLeft -> `table-align-middle-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleCenter -> `table-align-middle-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleRight -> `table-align-middle-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomLeft -> `table-align-bottom-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomCenter -> `table-align-bottom-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomRight -> `table-align-bottom-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignRemove -> `table-align-remove`;
* IconName.BordersAll -> `borders-all`;
* IconName.BordersOutside -> `borders-outside`;
* IconName.BordersInside -> `borders-inside`;
* IconName.BordersInsideHorizontal -> `borders-inside-horizontal`;
* IconName.BordersInsideVertical -> `borders-inside-vertical`;
* IconName.BorderTop -> `border-top`;
* IconName.BorderBottom -> `border-bottom`;
* IconName.BorderLeft -> `border-left`;
* IconName.BorderRight -> `border-right`;
* IconName.BorderNo -> `border-no`;
* IconName.BordersShowHide -> `borders-show-hide`;
* IconName.Form -> `form`;
* IconName.FormElement -> `form-element`;
* IconName.CodeSnippet -> `code-snippet`;
* IconName.SelectAll -> `select-all`;
* IconName.Button -> `button`;
* IconName.SelectBox -> `select-box`;
* IconName.CalendarDate -> `calendar-date`;
* IconName.GroupBox -> `group-box`;
* IconName.Textarea -> `textarea`;
* IconName.Textbox -> `textbox`;
* IconName.TextboxHidden -> `textbox-hidden`;
* IconName.Password -> `password`;
* IconName.ParagraphAdd -> `paragraph-add`;
* IconName.EditTools -> `edit-tools`;
* IconName.TemplateManager -> `template-manager`;
* IconName.ChangeManually -> `change-manually`;
* IconName.TrackChanges -> `track-changes`;
* IconName.TrackChangesEnable -> `track-changes-enable`;
* IconName.TrackChangesAccept -> `track-changes-accept`;
* IconName.TrackChangesAcceptAll -> `track-changes-accept-all`;
* IconName.TrackChangesReject -> `track-changes-reject`;
* IconName.TrackChangesRejectAll -> `track-changes-reject-all`;
* IconName.DocumentManager -> `document-manager`;
* IconName.CustomIcon -> `custom-icon`;
* IconName.DictionaryAdd -> `dictionary-add`;
* IconName.ImageLightDialog -> `image-light-dialog`;
* IconName.ImageEdit -> `image-edit`;
* IconName.ImageMapEditor -> `image-map-editor`;
* IconName.Comment -> `comment`;
* IconName.CommentRemove -> `comment-remove`;
* IconName.CommentsRemoveAll -> `comments-remove-all`;
* IconName.Silverlight -> `silverlight`;
* IconName.MediaManager -> `media-manager`;
* IconName.VideoExternal -> `video-external`;
* IconName.FlashManager -> `flash-manager`;
* IconName.FindAndReplace -> `find-and-replace`;
* IconName.Copy -> `copy`;
* IconName.Cut -> `cut`;
* IconName.Paste -> `paste`;
* IconName.PasteAsHtml -> `paste-as-html`;
* IconName.PasteFromWord -> `paste-from-word`;
* IconName.PasteFromWordStripFile -> `paste-from-word-strip-file`;
* IconName.PasteHtml -> `paste-html`;
* IconName.PasteMarkdown -> `paste-markdown`;
* IconName.PastePlainText -> `paste-plain-text`;
* IconName.ApplyFormat -> `apply-format`;
* IconName.ClearCss -> `clear-css`;
* IconName.CopyFormat -> `copy-format`;
* IconName.StripAllFormating -> `strip-all-formating`;
* IconName.StripCssFormat -> `strip-css-format`;
* IconName.StripFontElements -> `strip-font-elements`;
* IconName.StripSpanElements -> `strip-span-elements`;
* IconName.StripWordFormatting -> `strip-word-formatting`;
* IconName.FormatCodeBlock -> `format-code-block`;
* IconName.StyleBuilder -> `style-builder`;
* IconName.ModuleManager -> `module-manager`;
* IconName.HyperlinkLightDialog -> `hyperlink-light-dialog`;
* IconName.HyperlinkGlobe -> `hyperlink-globe`;
* IconName.HyperlinkGlobeRemove -> `hyperlink-globe-remove`;
* IconName.HyperlinkEmail -> `hyperlink-email`;
* IconName.Anchor -> `anchor`;
* IconName.TableLightDialog -> `table-light-dialog`;
* IconName.Table -> `table`;
* IconName.TableInsert -> `table-insert`;
* IconName.TableProperties -> `table-properties`;
* IconName.TableCell -> `table-cell`;
* IconName.TableCellProperties -> `table-cell-properties`;
* IconName.TableColumnInsertLeft -> `table-column-insert-left`;
* IconName.TableColumnInsertRight -> `table-column-insert-right`;
* IconName.TableRowInsertAbove -> `table-row-insert-above`;
* IconName.TableRowInsertBelow -> `table-row-insert-below`;
* IconName.TableColumnDelete -> `table-column-delete`;
* IconName.TableRowDelete -> `table-row-delete`;
* IconName.TableCellDelete -> `table-cell-delete`;
* IconName.TableDelete -> `table-delete`;
* IconName.CellsMerge -> `cells-merge`;
* IconName.CellsMergeHorizontally -> `cells-merge-horizontally`;
* IconName.CellsMergeVertically -> `cells-merge-vertically`;
* IconName.CellSplitHorizontally -> `cell-split-horizontally`;
* IconName.CellSplitVertically -> `cell-split-vertically`;
* IconName.PaneFreeze -> `pane-freeze`;
* IconName.RowFreeze -> `row-freeze`;
* IconName.ColumnFreeze -> `column-freeze`;
* IconName.ToolbarFloat -> `toolbar-float`;
* IconName.SpellChecker -> `spell-checker`;
* IconName.ValidationXhtml -> `validation-xhtml`;
* IconName.ValidationData -> `validation-data`;
* IconName.ToggleFullScreenMode -> `toggle-full-screen-mode`;
* IconName.FormulaFx -> `formula-fx`;
* IconName.Sum -> `sum`;
* IconName.Symbol -> `symbol`;
* IconName.Dollar -> `dollar`;
* IconName.Percent -> `percent`;
* IconName.CustomFormat -> `custom-format`;
* IconName.DecimalIncrease -> `decimal-increase`;
* IconName.DecimalDecrease -> `decimal-decrease`;
* IconName.FontSize -> `font-size`;
* IconName.ImageAbsolutePosition -> `image-absolute-position`;
* IconName.Folder -> `folder`;
* IconName.FolderOpen -> `folder-open`;
* IconName.FolderAdd -> `folder-add`;
* IconName.FolderUp -> `folder-up`;
* IconName.FolderMore -> `folder-more`;
* IconName.AggregateFields -> `aggregate-fields`;
* IconName.File -> `file`;
* IconName.FileAdd -> `file-add`;
* IconName.FileTxt -> `file-txt`;
* IconName.FileCsv -> `file-csv`;
* IconName.FileExcel -> `file-excel`;
* IconName.FileWord -> `file-word`;
* IconName.FileMdb -> `file-mdb`;
* IconName.FilePpt -> `file-ppt`;
* IconName.FilePdf -> `file-pdf`;
* IconName.FilePsd -> `file-psd`;
* IconName.FileFlash -> `file-flash`;
* IconName.FileConfig -> `file-config`;
* IconName.FileAscx -> `file-ascx`;
* IconName.FileBac -> `file-bac`;
* IconName.FileZip -> `file-zip`;
* IconName.Film -> `film`;
* IconName.Css3 -> `css3`;
* IconName.Html5 -> `html5`;
* IconName.Html -> `html`;
* IconName.Css -> `css`;
* IconName.Js -> `js`;
* IconName.Exe -> `exe`;
* IconName.Csproj -> `csproj`;
* IconName.Vbproj -> `vbproj`;
* IconName.Cs -> `cs`;
* IconName.Vb -> `vb`;
* IconName.Sln -> `sln`;
* IconName.Cloud -> `cloud`;
* IconName.FileHorizontal -> `file-horizontal`;
* IconName.PhotoCamera -> `photo-camera`;
* IconName.Image -> `image`;
* IconName.ImageExport -> `image-export`;
* IconName.ZoomActualSize -> `zoom-actual-size`;
* IconName.ZoomBestFit -> `zoom-best-fit`;
* IconName.ImageResize -> `image-resize`;
* IconName.Crop -> `crop`;
* IconName.Mirror -> `mirror`;
* IconName.FlipHorizontal -> `flip-horizontal`;
* IconName.FlipVertical -> `flip-vertical`;
* IconName.Rotate -> `rotate`;
* IconName.RotateRight -> `rotate-right`;
* IconName.RotateLeft -> `rotate-left`;
* IconName.Brush -> `brush`;
* IconName.Palette -> `palette`;
* IconName.Paint -> `paint`;
* IconName.Line -> `line`;
* IconName.BrightnessContrast -> `brightness-contrast`;
* IconName.Saturation -> `saturation`;
* IconName.InvertColors -> `invert-colors`;
* IconName.Transperancy -> `transperancy`;
* IconName.Greyscale -> `greyscale`;
* IconName.Blur -> `blur`;
* IconName.Sharpen -> `sharpen`;
* IconName.Shape -> `shape`;
* IconName.RoundCorners -> `round-corners`;
* IconName.FrontElement -> `front-element`;
* IconName.BackElement -> `back-element`;
* IconName.ForwardElement -> `forward-element`;
* IconName.BackwardElement -> `backward-element`;
* IconName.AlignLeftElement -> `align-left-element`;
* IconName.AlignCenterElement -> `align-center-element`;
* IconName.AlignRightElement -> `align-right-element`;
* IconName.AlignTopElement -> `align-top-element`;
* IconName.AlignMiddleElement -> `align-middle-element`;
* IconName.AlignBottomElement -> `align-bottom-element`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsUp -> `thumbnails-up`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsRight -> `thumbnails-right`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsDown -> `thumbnails-down`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsLeft -> `thumbnails-left`;
* IconName.FullScreen -> `full-screen`;
* IconName.FullScreenExit -> `full-screen-exit`;
* IconName.ResetColor -> `reset-color`;
* IconName.Arrow45UpRight -> `arrow-45-up-right`;
* IconName.Arrow45DownRight -> `arrow-45-down-right`;
* IconName.Arrow45DownLeft -> `arrow-45-down-left`;
* IconName.Arrow45UpLeft -> `arrow-45-up-left`;
* IconName.Arrow60Up -> `arrow-60-up`;
* IconName.Arrow60Right -> `arrow-60-right`;
* IconName.Arrow60Down -> `arrow-60-down`;
* IconName.Arrow60Left -> `arrow-60-left`;
* IconName.ArrowEndUp -> `arrow-end-up`;
* IconName.ArrowEndRight -> `arrow-end-right`;
* IconName.ArrowEndDown -> `arrow-end-down`;
* IconName.ArrowEndLeft -> `arrow-end-left`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Up -> `arrow-double-60-up`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekUp -> `arrow-seek-up`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Right -> `arrow-double-60-right`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekRight -> `arrow-seek-right`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Down -> `arrow-double-60-down`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekDown -> `arrow-seek-down`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Left -> `arrow-double-60-left`;
* IconName.ArrowsKpi -> `arrows-kpi`;
* IconName.ArrowsNoChange -> `arrows-no-change`;
* IconName.ArrowOverflowDown -> `arrow-overflow-down`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronUp -> `arrow-chevron-up`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronRight -> `arrow-chevron-right`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronDown -> `arrow-chevron-down`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronLeft -> `arrow-chevron-left`;
* IconName.ArrowUp -> `arrow-up`;
* IconName.ArrowRight -> `arrow-right`;
* IconName.ArrowDown -> `arrow-down`;
* IconName.ArrowLeft -> `arrow-left`;
* IconName.ArrowDrill -> `arrow-drill`;
* IconName.ArrowParent -> `arrow-parent`;
* IconName.ArrowRoot -> `arrow-root`;
* IconName.ArrowsResizing -> `arrows-resizing`;
* IconName.ArrowsDimensions -> `arrows-dimensions`;
* IconName.ArrowsSwap -> `arrows-swap`;
* IconName.DragAndDrop -> `drag-and-drop`;
* IconName.Categorize -> `categorize`;
* IconName.Grid -> `grid`;
* IconName.GridLayout -> `grid-layout`;
* IconName.Group -> `group`;
* IconName.Ungroup -> `ungroup`;
* IconName.HandlerDrag -> `handler-drag`;
* IconName.Layout -> `layout`;
* IconName.Layout1By4 -> `layout-1-by-4`;
* IconName.Layout2By2 -> `layout-2-by-2`;
* IconName.LayoutSideBySide -> `layout-side-by-side`;
* IconName.LayoutStacked -> `layout-stacked`;
* IconName.Columns -> `columns`;
* IconName.Rows -> `rows`;
* IconName.Reorder -> `reorder`;
* IconName.Menu -> `menu`;
* IconName.MoreVertical -> `more-vertical`;
* IconName.MoreHorizontal -> `more-horizontal`;
* IconName.GlobeOutline -> `globe-outline`;
* IconName.Globe -> `globe`;
* IconName.MarkerPin -> `marker-pin`;
* IconName.MarkerPinTarget -> `marker-pin-target`;
* IconName.Pin -> `pin`;
* IconName.Unpin -> `unpin`;
* IconName.Play -> `play`;
* IconName.Pause -> `pause`;
* IconName.Stop -> `stop`;
* IconName.Rewind -> `rewind`;
* IconName.Forward -> `forward`;
* IconName.VolumeDown -> `volume-down`;
* IconName.VolumeUp -> `volume-up`;
* IconName.VolumeOff -> `volume-off`;
* IconName.Hd -> `hd`;
* IconName.Subtitles -> `subtitles`;
* IconName.Playlist -> `playlist`;
* IconName.Audio -> `audio`;
* IconName.Share -> `share`;
* IconName.User -> `user`;
* IconName.Inbox -> `inbox`;
* IconName.Blogger -> `blogger`;
* IconName.BloggerBox -> `blogger-box`;
* IconName.Delicious -> `delicious`;
* IconName.DeliciousBox -> `delicious-box`;
* IconName.Digg -> `digg`;
* IconName.DiggBox -> `digg-box`;
* IconName.Email -> `email`;
* IconName.EmailBox -> `email-box`;
* IconName.Facebook -> `facebook`;
* IconName.FacebookBox -> `facebook-box`;
* IconName.Google -> `google`;
* IconName.GoogleBox -> `google-box`;
* IconName.GooglePlus -> `google-plus`;
* IconName.GooglePlusBox -> `google-plus-box`;
* IconName.Linkedin -> `linkedin`;
* IconName.LinkedinBox -> `linkedin-box`;
* IconName.Myspace -> `myspace`;
* IconName.MyspaceBox -> `myspace-box`;
* IconName.Pinterest -> `pinterest`;
* IconName.PinterestBox -> `pinterest-box`;
* IconName.Reddit -> `reddit`;
* IconName.RedditBox -> `reddit-box`;
* IconName.StumbleUpon -> `stumble-upon`;
* IconName.StumbleUponBox -> `stumble-upon-box`;
* IconName.TellAFriend -> `tell-a-friend`;
* IconName.TellAFriendBox -> `tell-a-friend-box`;
* IconName.Tumblr -> `tumblr`;
* IconName.TumblrBox -> `tumblr-box`;
* IconName.Twitter -> `twitter`;
* IconName.TwitterBox -> `twitter-box`;
* IconName.Yammer -> `yammer`;
* IconName.YammerBox -> `yammer-box`;
* IconName.Behance -> `behance`;
* IconName.BehanceBox -> `behance-box`;
* IconName.Dribbble -> `dribbble`;
* IconName.DribbbleBox -> `dribbble-box`;
* IconName.Rss -> `rss`;
* IconName.RssBox -> `rss-box`;
* IconName.Vimeo -> `vimeo`;
* IconName.VimeoBox -> `vimeo-box`;
* IconName.Youtube -> `youtube`;
* IconName.YoutubeBox -> `youtube-box`;
* IconName.HeartOutline -> `heart-outline`;
* IconName.Heart -> `heart`;
* IconName.StarOutline -> `star-outline`;
* IconName.Star -> `star`;
* IconName.Checkbox -> `checkbox`;
* IconName.CheckboxChecked -> `checkbox-checked`;
* IconName.TriStateIndeterminate -> `tri-state-indeterminate`;
* IconName.TriStateNull -> `tri-state-null`;
* IconName.Circle -> `circle`;
* IconName.Radiobutton -> `radiobutton`;
* IconName.RadiobuttonChecked -> `radiobutton-checked`;

Commit message:

chore(iconnames):migration from iconname kb tweaks

knowledge-base/common-icon-names-list.md, after:

---
title: Migration from the obsolete `IconName` class
description: Icon names list to migrate from the obsolete `IconName` class.
type: how-to
page_title: 
slug: common-kb-migration-from-iconname
position: 
tags: 
ticketid: 
res_type: kb
---

## Description

If you have used the obsolete `IconName` class, here is a list of icon names in its stead.

* IconName.Undo -> `undo`;
* IconName.Redo -> `redo`;
* IconName.Reset -> `reset`;
* IconName.Reload -> `reload`;
* IconName.NonRecurrence -> `non-recurrence`;
* IconName.ResetSm -> `reset-sm`;
* IconName.ReloadSm -> `reload-sm`;
* IconName.Clock -> `clock`;
* IconName.Calendar -> `calendar`;
* IconName.Save -> `save`;
* IconName.Print -> `print`;
* IconName.Edit -> `edit`;
* IconName.Delete -> `delete`;
* IconName.Attachment -> `attachment`;
* IconName.Attachment45 -> `attachment-45`;
* IconName.LinkHorizontal -> `link-horizontal`;
* IconName.UnlinkHorizontal -> `unlink-horizontal`;
* IconName.LinkVertical -> `link-vertical`;
* IconName.UnlinkVertical -> `unlink-vertical`;
* IconName.Lock -> `lock`;
* IconName.Unlock -> `unlock`;
* IconName.Cancel -> `cancel`;
* IconName.CancelOutline -> `cancel-outline`;
* IconName.CancelCircle -> `cancel-circle`;
* IconName.Check -> `check`;
* IconName.CheckOutline -> `check-outline`;
* IconName.CheckCircle -> `check-circle`;
* IconName.Close -> `close`;
* IconName.CloseOutline -> `close-outline`;
* IconName.CloseCircle -> `close-circle`;
* IconName.Plus -> `plus`;
* IconName.PlusOutline -> `plus-outline`;
* IconName.PlusCircle -> `plus-circle`;
* IconName.Minus -> `minus`;
* IconName.MinusOutline -> `minus-outline`;
* IconName.MinusCircle -> `minus-circle`;
* IconName.SortAsc -> `sort-asc`;
* IconName.SortDesc -> `sort-desc`;
* IconName.Unsort -> `unsort`;
* IconName.SortClear -> `sort-clear`;
* IconName.SortAscSm -> `sort-asc-sm`;
* IconName.SortDescSm -> `sort-desc-sm`;
* IconName.Filter -> `filter`;
* IconName.FilterClear -> `filter-clear`;
* IconName.FilterSm -> `filter-sm`;
* IconName.FilterSortAscSm -> `filter-sort-asc-sm`;
* IconName.FilterSortDescSm -> `filter-sort-desc-sm`;
* IconName.FilterAddExpression -> `filter-add-expression`;
* IconName.FilterAddGroup -> `filter-add-group`;
* IconName.Login -> `login`;
* IconName.Logout -> `logout`;
* IconName.Download -> `download`;
* IconName.Upload -> `upload`;
* IconName.HyperlinkOpen -> `hyperlink-open`;
* IconName.HyperlinkOpenSm -> `hyperlink-open-sm`;
* IconName.Launch -> `launch`;
* IconName.Window -> `window`;
* IconName.Windows -> `windows`;
* IconName.WindowMinimize -> `window-minimize`;
* IconName.Gear -> `gear`;
* IconName.Gears -> `gears`;
* IconName.Wrench -> `wrench`;
* IconName.Preview -> `preview`;
* IconName.Zoom -> `zoom`;
* IconName.ZoomIn -> `zoom-in`;
* IconName.ZoomOut -> `zoom-out`;
* IconName.Pan -> `pan`;
* IconName.Calculator -> `calculator`;
* IconName.Cart -> `cart`;
* IconName.Connector -> `connector`;
* IconName.PlusSm -> `plus-sm`;
* IconName.MinusSm -> `minus-sm`;
* IconName.KpiStatusDeny -> `kpi-status-deny`;
* IconName.KpiStatusHold -> `kpi-status-hold`;
* IconName.KpiStatusOpen -> `kpi-status-open`;
* IconName.Notification -> `notification`;
* IconName.Information -> `information`;
* IconName.Question -> `question`;
* IconName.Warning -> `warning`;
* IconName.PageProperties -> `page-properties`;
* IconName.Bold -> `bold`;
* IconName.Italic -> `italic`;
* IconName.Underline -> `underline`;
* IconName.FontFamily -> `font-family`;
* IconName.ForegroundColor -> `foreground-color`;
* IconName.ConvertLowercase -> `convert-lowercase`;
* IconName.ConvertUppercase -> `convert-uppercase`;
* IconName.Strikethrough -> `strikethrough`;
* IconName.SubScript -> `sub-script`;
* IconName.SupScript -> `sup-script`;
* IconName.Div -> `div`;
* IconName.All -> `all`;
* IconName.H1 -> `h1`;
* IconName.H2 -> `h2`;
* IconName.H3 -> `h3`;
* IconName.H4 -> `h4`;
* IconName.H5 -> `h5`;
* IconName.H6 -> `h6`;
* IconName.ListOrdered -> `list-ordered`;
* IconName.ListUnordered -> `list-unordered`;
* IconName.IndentIncrease -> `indent-increase`;
* IconName.IndentDecrease -> `indent-decrease`;
* IconName.InsertUp -> `insert-up`;
* IconName.InsertMiddle -> `insert-middle`;
* IconName.InsertDown -> `insert-down`;
* IconName.AlignTop -> `align-top`;
* IconName.AlignMiddle -> `align-middle`;
* IconName.AlignBottom -> `align-bottom`;
* IconName.AlignLeft -> `align-left`;
* IconName.AlignCenter -> `align-center`;
* IconName.AlignRight -> `align-right`;
* IconName.AlignJustify -> `align-justify`;
* IconName.AlignRemove -> `align-remove`;
* IconName.TextWrap -> `text-wrap`;
* IconName.RuleHorizontal -> `rule-horizontal`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopLeft -> `table-align-top-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopCenter -> `table-align-top-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignTopRight -> `table-align-top-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleLeft -> `table-align-middle-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleCenter -> `table-align-middle-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignMiddleRight -> `table-align-middle-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomLeft -> `table-align-bottom-left`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomCenter -> `table-align-bottom-center`;
* IconName.TableAlignBottomRight -> `table-align-bottom-right`;
* IconName.TableAlignRemove -> `table-align-remove`;
* IconName.BordersAll -> `borders-all`;
* IconName.BordersOutside -> `borders-outside`;
* IconName.BordersInside -> `borders-inside`;
* IconName.BordersInsideHorizontal -> `borders-inside-horizontal`;
* IconName.BordersInsideVertical -> `borders-inside-vertical`;
* IconName.BorderTop -> `border-top`;
* IconName.BorderBottom -> `border-bottom`;
* IconName.BorderLeft -> `border-left`;
* IconName.BorderRight -> `border-right`;
* IconName.BorderNo -> `border-no`;
* IconName.BordersShowHide -> `borders-show-hide`;
* IconName.Form -> `form`;
* IconName.FormElement -> `form-element`;
* IconName.CodeSnippet -> `code-snippet`;
* IconName.SelectAll -> `select-all`;
* IconName.Button -> `button`;
* IconName.SelectBox -> `select-box`;
* IconName.CalendarDate -> `calendar-date`;
* IconName.GroupBox -> `group-box`;
* IconName.Textarea -> `textarea`;
* IconName.Textbox -> `textbox`;
* IconName.TextboxHidden -> `textbox-hidden`;
* IconName.Password -> `password`;
* IconName.ParagraphAdd -> `paragraph-add`;
* IconName.EditTools -> `edit-tools`;
* IconName.TemplateManager -> `template-manager`;
* IconName.ChangeManually -> `change-manually`;
* IconName.TrackChanges -> `track-changes`;
* IconName.TrackChangesEnable -> `track-changes-enable`;
* IconName.TrackChangesAccept -> `track-changes-accept`;
* IconName.TrackChangesAcceptAll -> `track-changes-accept-all`;
* IconName.TrackChangesReject -> `track-changes-reject`;
* IconName.TrackChangesRejectAll -> `track-changes-reject-all`;
* IconName.DocumentManager -> `document-manager`;
* IconName.CustomIcon -> `custom-icon`;
* IconName.DictionaryAdd -> `dictionary-add`;
* IconName.ImageLightDialog -> `image-light-dialog`;
* IconName.ImageEdit -> `image-edit`;
* IconName.ImageMapEditor -> `image-map-editor`;
* IconName.Comment -> `comment`;
* IconName.CommentRemove -> `comment-remove`;
* IconName.CommentsRemoveAll -> `comments-remove-all`;
* IconName.Silverlight -> `silverlight`;
* IconName.MediaManager -> `media-manager`;
* IconName.VideoExternal -> `video-external`;
* IconName.FlashManager -> `flash-manager`;
* IconName.FindAndReplace -> `find-and-replace`;
* IconName.Copy -> `copy`;
* IconName.Cut -> `cut`;
* IconName.Paste -> `paste`;
* IconName.PasteAsHtml -> `paste-as-html`;
* IconName.PasteFromWord -> `paste-from-word`;
* IconName.PasteFromWordStripFile -> `paste-from-word-strip-file`;
* IconName.PasteHtml -> `paste-html`;
* IconName.PasteMarkdown -> `paste-markdown`;
* IconName.PastePlainText -> `paste-plain-text`;
* IconName.ApplyFormat -> `apply-format`;
* IconName.ClearCss -> `clear-css`;
* IconName.CopyFormat -> `copy-format`;
* IconName.StripAllFormating -> `strip-all-formating`;
* IconName.StripCssFormat -> `strip-css-format`;
* IconName.StripFontElements -> `strip-font-elements`;
* IconName.StripSpanElements -> `strip-span-elements`;
* IconName.StripWordFormatting -> `strip-word-formatting`;
* IconName.FormatCodeBlock -> `format-code-block`;
* IconName.StyleBuilder -> `style-builder`;
* IconName.ModuleManager -> `module-manager`;
* IconName.HyperlinkLightDialog -> `hyperlink-light-dialog`;
* IconName.HyperlinkGlobe -> `hyperlink-globe`;
* IconName.HyperlinkGlobeRemove -> `hyperlink-globe-remove`;
* IconName.HyperlinkEmail -> `hyperlink-email`;
* IconName.Anchor -> `anchor`;
* IconName.TableLightDialog -> `table-light-dialog`;
* IconName.Table -> `table`;
* IconName.TableInsert -> `table-insert`;
* IconName.TableProperties -> `table-properties`;
* IconName.TableCell -> `table-cell`;
* IconName.TableCellProperties -> `table-cell-properties`;
* IconName.TableColumnInsertLeft -> `table-column-insert-left`;
* IconName.TableColumnInsertRight -> `table-column-insert-right`;
* IconName.TableRowInsertAbove -> `table-row-insert-above`;
* IconName.TableRowInsertBelow -> `table-row-insert-below`;
* IconName.TableColumnDelete -> `table-column-delete`;
* IconName.TableRowDelete -> `table-row-delete`;
* IconName.TableCellDelete -> `table-cell-delete`;
* IconName.TableDelete -> `table-delete`;
* IconName.CellsMerge -> `cells-merge`;
* IconName.CellsMergeHorizontally -> `cells-merge-horizontally`;
* IconName.CellsMergeVertically -> `cells-merge-vertically`;
* IconName.CellSplitHorizontally -> `cell-split-horizontally`;
* IconName.CellSplitVertically -> `cell-split-vertically`;
* IconName.PaneFreeze -> `pane-freeze`;
* IconName.RowFreeze -> `row-freeze`;
* IconName.ColumnFreeze -> `column-freeze`;
* IconName.ToolbarFloat -> `toolbar-float`;
* IconName.SpellChecker -> `spell-checker`;
* IconName.ValidationXhtml -> `validation-xhtml`;
* IconName.ValidationData -> `validation-data`;
* IconName.ToggleFullScreenMode -> `toggle-full-screen-mode`;
* IconName.FormulaFx -> `formula-fx`;
* IconName.Sum -> `sum`;
* IconName.Symbol -> `symbol`;
* IconName.Dollar -> `dollar`;
* IconName.Percent -> `percent`;
* IconName.CustomFormat -> `custom-format`;
* IconName.DecimalIncrease -> `decimal-increase`;
* IconName.DecimalDecrease -> `decimal-decrease`;
* IconName.FontSize -> `font-size`;
* IconName.ImageAbsolutePosition -> `image-absolute-position`;
* IconName.Folder -> `folder`;
* IconName.FolderOpen -> `folder-open`;
* IconName.FolderAdd -> `folder-add`;
* IconName.FolderUp -> `folder-up`;
* IconName.FolderMore -> `folder-more`;
* IconName.AggregateFields -> `aggregate-fields`;
* IconName.File -> `file`;
* IconName.FileAdd -> `file-add`;
* IconName.FileTxt -> `file-txt`;
* IconName.FileCsv -> `file-csv`;
* IconName.FileExcel -> `file-excel`;
* IconName.FileWord -> `file-word`;
* IconName.FileMdb -> `file-mdb`;
* IconName.FilePpt -> `file-ppt`;
* IconName.FilePdf -> `file-pdf`;
* IconName.FilePsd -> `file-psd`;
* IconName.FileFlash -> `file-flash`;
* IconName.FileConfig -> `file-config`;
* IconName.FileAscx -> `file-ascx`;
* IconName.FileBac -> `file-bac`;
* IconName.FileZip -> `file-zip`;
* IconName.Film -> `film`;
* IconName.Css3 -> `css3`;
* IconName.Html5 -> `html5`;
* IconName.Html -> `html`;
* IconName.Css -> `css`;
* IconName.Js -> `js`;
* IconName.Exe -> `exe`;
* IconName.Csproj -> `csproj`;
* IconName.Vbproj -> `vbproj`;
* IconName.Cs -> `cs`;
* IconName.Vb -> `vb`;
* IconName.Sln -> `sln`;
* IconName.Cloud -> `cloud`;
* IconName.FileHorizontal -> `file-horizontal`;
* IconName.PhotoCamera -> `photo-camera`;
* IconName.Image -> `image`;
* IconName.ImageExport -> `image-export`;
* IconName.ZoomActualSize -> `zoom-actual-size`;
* IconName.ZoomBestFit -> `zoom-best-fit`;
* IconName.ImageResize -> `image-resize`;
* IconName.Crop -> `crop`;
* IconName.Mirror -> `mirror`;
* IconName.FlipHorizontal -> `flip-horizontal`;
* IconName.FlipVertical -> `flip-vertical`;
* IconName.Rotate -> `rotate`;
* IconName.RotateRight -> `rotate-right`;
* IconName.RotateLeft -> `rotate-left`;
* IconName.Brush -> `brush`;
* IconName.Palette -> `palette`;
* IconName.Paint -> `paint`;
* IconName.Line -> `line`;
* IconName.BrightnessContrast -> `brightness-contrast`;
* IconName.Saturation -> `saturation`;
* IconName.InvertColors -> `invert-colors`;
* IconName.Transperancy -> `transperancy`;
* IconName.Greyscale -> `greyscale`;
* IconName.Blur -> `blur`;
* IconName.Sharpen -> `sharpen`;
* IconName.Shape -> `shape`;
* IconName.RoundCorners -> `round-corners`;
* IconName.FrontElement -> `front-element`;
* IconName.BackElement -> `back-element`;
* IconName.ForwardElement -> `forward-element`;
* IconName.BackwardElement -> `backward-element`;
* IconName.AlignLeftElement -> `align-left-element`;
* IconName.AlignCenterElement -> `align-center-element`;
* IconName.AlignRightElement -> `align-right-element`;
* IconName.AlignTopElement -> `align-top-element`;
* IconName.AlignMiddleElement -> `align-middle-element`;
* IconName.AlignBottomElement -> `align-bottom-element`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsUp -> `thumbnails-up`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsRight -> `thumbnails-right`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsDown -> `thumbnails-down`;
* IconName.ThumbnailsLeft -> `thumbnails-left`;
* IconName.FullScreen -> `full-screen`;
* IconName.FullScreenExit -> `full-screen-exit`;
* IconName.ResetColor -> `reset-color`;
* IconName.Arrow45UpRight -> `arrow-45-up-right`;
* IconName.Arrow45DownRight -> `arrow-45-down-right`;
* IconName.Arrow45DownLeft -> `arrow-45-down-left`;
* IconName.Arrow45UpLeft -> `arrow-45-up-left`;
* IconName.Arrow60Up -> `arrow-60-up`;
* IconName.Arrow60Right -> `arrow-60-right`;
* IconName.Arrow60Down -> `arrow-60-down`;
* IconName.Arrow60Left -> `arrow-60-left`;
* IconName.ArrowEndUp -> `arrow-end-up`;
* IconName.ArrowEndRight -> `arrow-end-right`;
* IconName.ArrowEndDown -> `arrow-end-down`;
* IconName.ArrowEndLeft -> `arrow-end-left`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Up -> `arrow-double-60-up`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekUp -> `arrow-seek-up`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Right -> `arrow-double-60-right`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekRight -> `arrow-seek-right`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Down -> `arrow-double-60-down`;
* IconName.ArrowSeekDown -> `arrow-seek-down`;
* IconName.ArrowDouble60Left -> `arrow-double-60-left`;
* IconName.ArrowsKpi -> `arrows-kpi`;
* IconName.ArrowsNoChange -> `arrows-no-change`;
* IconName.ArrowOverflowDown -> `arrow-overflow-down`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronUp -> `arrow-chevron-up`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronRight -> `arrow-chevron-right`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronDown -> `arrow-chevron-down`;
* IconName.ArrowChevronLeft -> `arrow-chevron-left`;
* IconName.ArrowUp -> `arrow-up`;
* IconName.ArrowRight -> `arrow-right`;
* IconName.ArrowDown -> `arrow-down`;
* IconName.ArrowLeft -> `arrow-left`;
* IconName.ArrowDrill -> `arrow-drill`;
* IconName.ArrowParent -> `arrow-parent`;
* IconName.ArrowRoot -> `arrow-root`;
* IconName.ArrowsResizing -> `arrows-resizing`;
* IconName.ArrowsDimensions -> `arrows-dimensions`;
* IconName.ArrowsSwap -> `arrows-swap`;
* IconName.DragAndDrop -> `drag-and-drop`;
* IconName.Categorize -> `categorize`;
* IconName.Grid -> `grid`;
* IconName.GridLayout -> `grid-layout`;
* IconName.Group -> `group`;
* IconName.Ungroup -> `ungroup`;
* IconName.HandlerDrag -> `handler-drag`;
* IconName.Layout -> `layout`;
* IconName.Layout1By4 -> `layout-1-by-4`;
* IconName.Layout2By2 -> `layout-2-by-2`;
* IconName.LayoutSideBySide -> `layout-side-by-side`;
* IconName.LayoutStacked -> `layout-stacked`;
* IconName.Columns -> `columns`;
* IconName.Rows -> `rows`;
* IconName.Reorder -> `reorder`;
* IconName.Menu -> `menu`;
* IconName.MoreVertical -> `more-vertical`;
* IconName.MoreHorizontal -> `more-horizontal`;
* IconName.GlobeOutline -> `globe-outline`;
* IconName.Globe -> `globe`;
* IconName.MarkerPin -> `marker-pin`;
* IconName.MarkerPinTarget -> `marker-pin-target`;
* IconName.Pin -> `pin`;
* IconName.Unpin -> `unpin`;
* IconName.Play -> `play`;
* IconName.Pause -> `pause`;
* IconName.Stop -> `stop`;
* IconName.Rewind -> `rewind`;
* IconName.Forward -> `forward`;
* IconName.VolumeDown -> `volume-down`;
* IconName.VolumeUp -> `volume-up`;
* IconName.VolumeOff -> `volume-off`;
* IconName.Hd -> `hd`;
* IconName.Subtitles -> `subtitles`;
* IconName.Playlist -> `playlist`;
* IconName.Audio -> `audio`;
* IconName.Share -> `share`;
* IconName.User -> `user`;
* IconName.Inbox -> `inbox`;
* IconName.Blogger -> `blogger`;
* IconName.BloggerBox -> `blogger-box`;
* IconName.Delicious -> `delicious`;
* IconName.DeliciousBox -> `delicious-box`;
* IconName.Digg -> `digg`;
* IconName.DiggBox -> `digg-box`;
* IconName.Email -> `email`;
* IconName.EmailBox -> `email-box`;
* IconName.Facebook -> `facebook`;
* IconName.FacebookBox -> `facebook-box`;
* IconName.Google -> `google`;
* IconName.GoogleBox -> `google-box`;
* IconName.GooglePlus -> `google-plus`;
* IconName.GooglePlusBox -> `google-plus-box`;
* IconName.Linkedin -> `linkedin`;
* IconName.LinkedinBox -> `linkedin-box`;
* IconName.Myspace -> `myspace`;
* IconName.MyspaceBox -> `myspace-box`;
* IconName.Pinterest -> `pinterest`;
* IconName.PinterestBox -> `pinterest-box`;
* IconName.Reddit -> `reddit`;
* IconName.RedditBox -> `reddit-box`;
* IconName.StumbleUpon -> `stumble-upon`;
* IconName.StumbleUponBox -> `stumble-upon-box`;
* IconName.TellAFriend -> `tell-a-friend`;
* IconName.TellAFriendBox -> `tell-a-friend-box`;
* IconName.Tumblr -> `tumblr`;
* IconName.TumblrBox -> `tumblr-box`;
* IconName.Twitter -> `twitter`;
* IconName.TwitterBox -> `twitter-box`;
* IconName.Yammer -> `yammer`;
* IconName.YammerBox -> `yammer-box`;
* IconName.Behance -> `behance`;
* IconName.BehanceBox -> `behance-box`;
* IconName.Dribbble -> `dribbble`;
* IconName.DribbbleBox -> `dribbble-box`;
* IconName.Rss -> `rss`;
* IconName.RssBox -> `rss-box`;
* IconName.Vimeo -> `vimeo`;
* IconName.VimeoBox -> `vimeo-box`;
* IconName.Youtube -> `youtube`;
* IconName.YoutubeBox -> `youtube-box`;
* IconName.HeartOutline -> `heart-outline`;
* IconName.Heart -> `heart`;
* IconName.StarOutline -> `star-outline`;
* IconName.Star -> `star`;
* IconName.Checkbox -> `checkbox`;
* IconName.CheckboxChecked -> `checkbox-checked`;
* IconName.TriStateIndeterminate -> `tri-state-indeterminate`;
* IconName.TriStateNull -> `tri-state-null`;
* IconName.Circle -> `circle`;
* IconName.Radiobutton -> `radiobutton`;
* IconName.RadiobuttonChecked -> `radiobutton-checked`;
