knowledge-base/grid-rows-text-ellipsis.md, before:

---
title: Prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
description: How to prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
type: how-to
page_title: Prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
slug: grid-kb-rows-text-ellipsis
position: 
tags: 
ticketid: 1499434
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Grid for Blazor, TreeList for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>


## Description

I am using the TelerikGrid component for Blazor. One of my columns contains a long text, like a description and the Grid wraps it in multiple lines. I would like to prevent that from happening and show the maximum amount of text depending on the column width and after that put an ellipsis (...). 

## Solution

In order to prevent the Grid from wrapping the text in multiple lines you can use CSS and target the `<td>` HTML tags, which contain the data. In order to make that easier you can take advantage of the [OnCellRender event]({%slug grid-column-events%}#oncellrender) that the component exposes. The solution below showcases a sample implementation.


````CSHTML
@*Use the OnCellRender event to pass a custom CSS class to the Grid column and prevent it from wrapping the text in multiple lines for the Notes column*@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Height="400px"
             Pageable="true" Sortable="true" Groupable="true"
             FilterMode="Telerik.Blazor.GridFilterMode.FilterRow"
             Resizable="true" Reorderable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Width="120px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))" Title="Employee Name" Groupable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" Title="Team" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Note))" Title="Note" OnCellRender="@OnCellRenderHandler" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.HireDate))" Title="Hire Date" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    void OnCellRenderHandler(GridCellRenderEventArgs args)
    {
        args.Class = "custom-ellipsis";
    }

    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 30).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "Employee " + x,
        Team = "team " + x % 5,
        Note = "Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has... ",
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x).Date
    });

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public string Note { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }
}

<style>
    .custom-ellipsis {
        overflow: hidden;
        max-height: 60px;
        text-overflow: ellipsis;
        white-space: nowrap;
    }
</style>
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/grid-rows-ellipsis-text-example.png)

## See also

* [Knowledge-Base article: Long text in TreeList does not align with the corresponding level]({%slug treelist-longer-text-starts-from-root-level%})

Commit message:

chore(kb): add note on templates

knowledge-base/grid-rows-text-ellipsis.md, after:

---
title: Prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
description: How to prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
type: how-to
page_title: Prevent the Grid from wrapping text in multiple lines
slug: grid-kb-rows-text-ellipsis
position: 
tags: 
ticketid: 1499434
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Grid for Blazor, TreeList for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>


## Description

I am using the TelerikGrid component for Blazor. One of my columns contains a long text, like a description and the Grid wraps it in multiple lines. I would like to prevent that from happening and show the maximum amount of text depending on the column width and after that put an ellipsis (...). 

## Solution

In order to prevent the Grid from wrapping the text in multiple lines you can use CSS and target the `<td>` HTML tags, which contain the data. In order to make that easier you can take advantage of the [OnCellRender event]({%slug grid-column-events%}#oncellrender) that the component exposes. The solution below showcases a sample implementation.

>note You can achieve the same behavior if you use the [Template]({%slug grid-templates-column%}) instead of the OnCellRender event. If you choose to go for the `Template` approach you should wrap the `(context as <YourModel>).FieldName` into a HTML element and add the CSS class to the `class` attribute of that element.


````CSHTML
@*Use the OnCellRender event to pass a custom CSS class to the Grid column and prevent it from wrapping the text in multiple lines for the Notes column*@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Height="400px"
             Pageable="true" Sortable="true" Groupable="true"
             FilterMode="Telerik.Blazor.GridFilterMode.FilterRow"
             Resizable="true" Reorderable="true">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Width="120px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))" Title="Employee Name" Groupable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" Title="Team" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Note))" Title="Note" OnCellRender="@OnCellRenderHandler" />
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.HireDate))" Title="Hire Date" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    void OnCellRenderHandler(GridCellRenderEventArgs args)
    {
        args.Class = "custom-ellipsis";
    }

    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 30).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "Employee " + x,
        Team = "team " + x % 5,
        Note = "Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has... ",
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x).Date
    });

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Team { get; set; }
        public string Note { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }
}

<style>
    .custom-ellipsis {
        overflow: hidden;
        max-height: 60px;
        text-overflow: ellipsis;
        white-space: nowrap;
    }
</style>
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/grid-rows-ellipsis-text-example.png)

## See also

* [Knowledge-Base article: Long text in TreeList does not align with the corresponding level]({%slug treelist-longer-text-starts-from-root-level%})
