---
title: 3.0.0
description: Handle the changes in the 3.0.0 release of the Telerik UI for Blazor components.
page_title: Breaking Changes in 3.0.0
slug: changes-in-3-0-0
position: 1
---

# Upcoming Breaking Changes in 3.0.0

> This article is a heads up for the upcoming changes in Telerik UI for Blazor 3.0.0 release, which will be shipped in mid January 2022. While typically such articles are published at the day of a release, we wanted to make sure we inform our customers in advance and provide time to plan and prepare for what's coming. Additionally with the 3.0.0 release we will update the current article with "how to" guidelines, so that are enabled with everything you need for a smooth upgrade.

## Common Changes

### OnRead

The `OnRead` handlers of all components now expect you to pass the data to an **event argument**. This brings the following changes when using manual data operations:

- Set the `TItem` attribute of the component. This will provide information about the model type, instead of `Data`.
- Set the `TValue` attribute for AutoComplete, ComboBox, DropDownList and MultiSelect.
- Do not set the `Data` attribute. Instead, set `args.Data` (`IEnumerable`) in the `OnRead` handler.
- There is no need to cast the items returned by `ToDataSourceResult()` when setting `args.Data`.
- Do not set `TotalCount`. This attribute is now removed in favor of `args.Total` (`int`) in the `OnRead` handler.
- Aggregates over all the data are now supported via `args.AggregateResults` (`IEnumerable<AggregateResult>`). The `AggregateResults` event argument is exposed only for components that support aggregates.
- If you have cached the `DataSourceRequest` object in order to set `Data` later, the new approach is to [reset the Grid state, so that `OnRead` is called again]({%slug grid-refresh-data%}#call-onread).

>caption OnRead Usage in UI for Blazor up to version 2.30 and after version 3.0

<table>
    <thead><tr>
        <th>UI for Blazor 2.30</th>
        <th>UI for Blazor 3.0</th>
    </tr></thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>
&lt;TelerikComboBox Data="@ComboData"
                 OnRead="@OnComboRead"
                 TotalCount="@ComboTotal" /&gt;

&lt;TelerikGrid Data="@GridData"
             OnRead="@OnGridRead"
             TotalCount="@GridTotal" /&gt;

</code></pre><pre><code>
List&lt;Product&gt; SourceData { get; set; } = new();
List&lt;Product&gt; ComboData { get; set; }
List&lt;Product&gt; GridData { get; set; }
int ComboTotal { get; set; } = 0;
int GridTotal { get; set; } = 0;

protected void OnComboRead(ComboBoxReadEventArgs args)
{
    var result = SourceData.ToDataSourceResult(args.Request);

    ComboData = result.Data.Cast&lt;Product&gt;().ToList();
    ComboTotal = result.Total;
}

protected void OnGridRead(GridReadEventArgs args)
{
    var result = SourceData.ToDataSourceResult(args.Request);

    GridData = result.Data.Cast&lt;Product&gt;().ToList();
    GridTotal = result.Total;
    // aggregates N/A
}
</code></pre>
            </td>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>
&lt;TelerikComboBox TItem="@Product"
                 TValue="int"
                 OnRead="@OnComboRead" /&gt;

&lt;TelerikGrid TItem="@Product"
             OnRead="@OnGridRead" /&gt;


</code></pre><pre><code>
List&lt;Product&gt; SourceData { get; set; } = new();





protected void OnComboRead(ComboBoxReadEventArgs args)
{
    var result = SourceData.ToDataSourceResult(args.Request);

    args.Data = result.Data;
    args.Total = result.Total;
}

protected void OnGridRead(GridReadEventArgs args)
{
    var result = SourceData.ToDataSourceResult(args.Request);

    args.Data = result.Data;
    args.Total = result.Total;
    args.AggregateResults = result.AggregateResults;
}
</code></pre>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Other Common Changes

- [`ToODataString` extension method](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/api/Telerik.Blazor.Extensions.DataSourceExtensions) is moved to the [`Telerik.Blazor.Extensions` namespace](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/api/Telerik.Blazor.Extensions). The `Telerik.Blazor.ExtensionMethods` namespace is removed in favor of `Telerik.Blazor.Extensions`.
- [`Telerik.Blazor.IconName` class]({%slug common-kb-migration-from-iconname%}) ([obsolete since version 2.0]({%slug changes-in-2-0-0%})) is removed. Use the icon names from the [Built-in Icons documentation]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}#icons-list).

## Component Changes

- Button - removed `Primary` parameter in favor of [`ThemeColor`]({%slug components/button/overview%}) of type `string`. There is a new static class `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.Button.ThemeColor` with a predefined set of theme colors. To get the old primary Button styling, set `ThemeColor="@ThemeConstants.Button.ThemeColor.Primary"`.
- TileLayout - introduced identifier of the TileLayout item. `OnResize` and `OnReorder` events will receive EventArgs that will point to the resized/reordered item. This feature comes from a [public feature request](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1489011)
- TreeView - removed `ExpandedField` parameter in favor of `ExpandedItems`.
- TreeList - changed `TreeListEditMode` enum default value from `Inline` to `None`. TreeList editing should be explicitly enabled for the `Add` and `Edit` command buttons to work.
- Grid - changed `GridEditMode` enum default value from `Inline` to `None`. Grid editing should be explicitly enabled for the `Add` and `Edit` command buttons to work.
- Grid – changed `OnRead` method to return the `Data`. This is an important change that will empower us to deliver more features in the future (like export all Grid pages). The Grid will not depend on its lifecycle to get the data.
- Grid – use `IFilterDescriptor` in GridState instead of `FilterDescriptorBase`
- DateInput – removed `ParsingErrorMessage` (obsolete since version 2.8) in favor of `DateInput_ParsingErrorMessage` [localization string]({%slug globalization-localization%}).
- ContextMenu – changed the type of the [`OnClick` event handler]({%slug contextmenu-events%}#onclick) from `EventCallback<TItem>` to `EventCallback<ContextMenuClickEventArgs<TItem>>`
- Window - changed `Size` parameter type from `WindowSize` enum to `string`. There is a new static class `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.Window.Size` with a predefined set of size properties. The `Size` property will have effect in future UI for Blazor versions. To maintain the old behavior, set the Window `Width` to `300px`, `800px` or `1200px`.
- Loader, LoaderContainer - changed `Size` parameter type from `LoaderSize` enum to `string`. The default value of `Size` is `ThemeConstants.Loader.Size.Medium`. There is a new static class `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.Loader.Size` with a predefined set of size properties.

Grid EditorTemplates and Keyboard Navigation are in design stage. So, there might be changes coming from this direction as well.

## Parameter Names

We are making our API naming more consistent.

- Editor - `UpdateInterval` parameter is renamed to `DebounceDelay`
- Drawer - `Content` RenderFragment is renamed to [`DrawerContent`]({%slug drawer-overview%})
- Drawer - `IsSeparatorField` parameter (obsolete since version 2.27) is removed in favor of [`SeparatorField`]({%slug drawer-data-binding%})
- Stepper - `IsCanceled` property in `StepperStepChangeEventArgs` (obsolete since version 2.26) is removed in favor of `IsCancelled`

## Rendering and Themes

-  HTML classes and DOM element hierarchy will be updated for Buttons, Inputs, Selects, DatePickers Checkbox, Switch.

### CSS Classes for State

Some CSS classes related to component state were renamed.

|UI for Blazor 2.30|UI for Blazor 3.0|
|----|----|
|`k-state-disabled`|`k-disabled`|
|`k-state-focused`|`k-focus`|
|`k-state-invalid`|`k-invalid`|
|`k-state-selected`|`k-selected`|

### k-widget Class

The `k-widget` CSS class was removed from all components. If you use this class in custom CSS code, replace it with the corresponding component-specific classes.

<table>
    <thead><tr>
        <th>UI for Blazor 2.30</th>
        <th>UI for Blazor 3.0</th>
    </tr></thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>
<pre><code>&lt;div class="k-widget k-grid">&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;span class="k-widget k-combobox">&lt;/span&gt;

&lt;style&gt;
    .foo .k-widget {
        /* ... */
    }
&lt;/style&gt;
 
</code></pre>
            </td>
            <td>
<pre><code>&lt;div class="k-grid">&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;span class="k-combobox">&lt;/span&gt;

&lt;style&gt;
    .foo .k-grid,
    .foo .k-combobox {
        /* ... */
    }
&lt;/style&gt;</code></pre>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Component Widths

- Dropdown components – removed the default inline style of `width: 300px`. The new default width is `100%` and comes from the theme CSS. Applies to AutoComplete, ComboBox, DropDownList, MultiSelect.
- Textbox components - changed the default theme width from `12.4em` to `100%`. Applies to DateInput, Date/Time Picker, MaskedTextBox, NumericTextBox, TextArea, TextBox.

### Other Changes

- ButtonGroup and ToggleButton - the selected state of toggle buttons no longer matches the "primary" style. The goal is to have consistent styling of the active state in all components. To maintain the old behavior, use:

    ````CSHTML
    <TelerikButtonGroup>
        <ButtonGroupToggleButton @bind-Selected="@Selected" ThemeColor="@ThemeColor">Toggle</ButtonGroupToggleButton>
    </TelerikButtonGroup>

    <TelerikToggleButton @bind-Selected="@Selected" ThemeColor="@ThemeColor">Toggle</TelerikToggleButton>

    @code {
        public bool Selected { get; set; }
        public string ThemeColor => Selected ? ThemeConstants.Button.ThemeColor.Primary : ThemeConstants.Button.ThemeColor.Base;
    }
    ````

- Textbox and dropdown components have new consistent HTML rendering:

    <div class="skip-repl"></div>
    ````HTML
    <span class="k-[COMPONENT]">
        <span class="k-input-inner"> <!-- input & icons here --> </span>
        <button class="k-input-button [BUTTON CLASSES]"><!-- button here --></button>
    </span>
    ````
