---
title: 7.0.0
description: Handle the changes in the 7.0.0 release of the Telerik UI for Blazor components.
page_title: Breaking Changes in 7.0.0
slug: changes-in-7-0-0
position: 970
---

# Breaking Changes in 7.0.0

This article outlines the breaking changes in Telerik UI for Blazor version 7.0.0.

## Common

### .NET Support

[.NET 7 is no longer supported](slug://system-requirements).

### AutoComplete, ComboBox, MultiColumnComboBox, MultiSelect

The obsolete `ClearButton` parameter is removed. Use `ShowClearButton` instead.

## DateRangePicker

* The [`ShowOtherMonthDays` parameter's default value](slug://daterangepicker-overview#daterangepicker-parameters) is changed to `false`.

## DropDownButton

* The [`ShowArrowButton` parameter's default value](slug://dropdownbutton-overview#dropdownbutton-parameters) is changed to `false`.

## FileSelect

* The obsolete method `OpenFileSelectAsync()` is removed. [Use `OpenSelectFilesDialog()`](slug://fileselect-overview#fileselect-reference-and-methods) instead.

## Gantt

* The [`Type` property of `GanttDependencyCreateEventArgs`](slug://gantt-dependencies-editing) changes from `int` to [`GanttDependencyType` enum](slug://telerik.blazor.ganttdependencytype).
* The [dependency model class of the Gantt](slug://gantt-dependencies-databind) must use the `GanttDependencyType` enum for its `TypeField` property.

## Grid

* Columns with `Visible="false"` are editable by default in popup edit mode. To [disable editing of a hidden column, set `Editable="false"`](slug://components/grid/editing/popup) explicitly.
* The obsolete `AutoFitColumn()` method is removed. [Use `AutoFitColumnAsync()`](slug://components/grid/columns/resize#autofit-columns) instead.
* The obsolete `AutoFitColumns()` method is removed. Use `AutoFitColumnsAsync()` instead.
* The obsolete `AutoFitAllColumns()` method is removed. Use `AutoFitAllColumnsAsync()` instead.
* When using [grouping and `OnRead`](slug://components/grid/manual-operations#grouping-with-onread), casting `DataSourceResult.Data` to a list of objects (`.Cast<object>()`) is no longer needed.
* [Components in some Grid templates require a `@key`](slug://grid-kb-using-components-in-templates) in order to display correct values after data operations like sorting, filtering, paging, and others.

>caption Using custom components in Grid column templates up to version 6.2.0 and after version 7.0.0

<table>
    <thead><tr>
        <th>UI for Blazor 6.2.0</th>
        <th>UI for Blazor 7.0.0</th>
    </tr></thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top">

````RAZOR.skip-repl
<GridColumn>
    <Template>
        @{ var dataItem = (GridModel)context; }
        <ChildComponent />
    </Template>
</GridColumn>
````

</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top">

````RAZOR.skip-repl
<GridColumn>
    <Template>
        @{ var dataItem = (GridModel)context; }
        <ChildComponent @key="@dataItem" />
    </Template>
</GridColumn>
````

</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## TextArea

* The obsolete parameter `AutoSize` is removed. Use [`ResizeMode="TextAreaResizeMode.Auto"`](slug://textarea-overview#textarea-parameters) instead of `AutoSize="true"`.

## TreeList

* Columns with `Visible="false"` are editable by default in popup edit mode. To [disable editing of a hidden column, set `Editable="false"`](slug://treelist-editing-popup) explicitly.
* The obsolete `AutoFitColumn()` method is removed. [Use `AutoFitColumnAsync()`](slug://treelist-columns-resize#autofit-columns) instead.
* The obsolete `AutoFitColumns()` method is removed. Use `AutoFitColumnsAsync()` instead.
* The obsolete `AutoFitAllColumns()` method is removed. Use `AutoFitAllColumnsAsync()` instead.

## Upload

* The obsolete method `OpenFileSelectAsync()` is removed. [Use `OpenSelectFilesDialog()`](slug://upload-overview#upload-reference-and-methods) instead.

## See Also

* [Rendering changes in Telerik UI for Blazor 7.0.0](slug://rendering-changes-in-7-0-0)
