components/drawer/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Drawer for Blazor Overview
description: Overview of the Drawer for Blazor
slug: drawer-overview
tags: telerik,blazor,drawer,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Drawer Overview

The Drawer component is a dismissible or permanently visible panel for navigating in responsive web applications. It allows switching the content of different sections of the page.

To use a Telerik Drawer for Blazor

1. add the `TelerikDrawer` tag
1. populate its `Data` property with the collection of items you want the user to see


>caption The Drawer provides the following features:

* `Data` - a collection of flat data for all items in the Drawer.
* `Position` - you can control the position of the Drawer, through the `DrawerPosition` enum.
The members of the enum are:
 * `Left` - the default position
 * `Right`
* `Expanded` - specify whether the Drawer is expanded or collapsed. It's main purpose is to set the initial state of the Drawer. To toggle the drawer read the [ToogleAsync](#toggleasync) section.
* `Width` - the width of the Drawer when in Expanded mode.
* `Class` - the CSS class that will be rendered on the main wrapping element of the Drawer.
* `Mode` - control whether the Drawer is in `Push` or `Overlay` mode. For more information read the [Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%}) article.
* `MiniMode` - when the Drawer is collapsed control whether there is mini menu. For more information read the [Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%}) article.
* `Content` - acces the `<Content>` child tag of `<TelerikDrawer>` to render a component or custom HTML as the content of the Drawer.
* `SelectedItem` - Bindable property that contains the currently selected item in the Drawer. For more information read the [Selection]({%slug drawer-selection%}) article.
* `SelectedItemChanged` - read the [Events]({%slug drawer-events%}) article for more information.
* `Template` - define a custom template for the entire Drawer. For more information read the [Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%}) article.
* `ItemTemplate` - define a custom template for the Items of the Drawer. For more information read the [Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%}) article
* `Icon` / `IconClass` / `ImageUrl` - the [Telerik icon]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}), a class for a custom font icon, or the URL to a raster image that will be rendered in the item. They have the listed order of precedence in case more than one is present in the data (that is, an `Icon` will have the highest importance).

## ToggleAsync method

The `ToggleAsync` method is accessible through the reference of the Drawer. It allows you to expand or collapse the component by a click of a button.

## Example

````CSHTML
@* This example shows the basic configuration of the Drawer and how to expand or collapse a Drawer with a click of a button. *@

@*The Expanded boolean variable sets the initial state of the Drawer.*@

<TelerikDrawer Expanded="Expanded"
               Data="Data"
               MiniMode="true"
               Mode="DrawerMode.Push"
               @ref="DrawerRef">
    <Content>
        <TelerikButton OnClick="@(() => DrawerRef.ToggleAsync())" Icon="rows">Toggle drawer</TelerikButton>

        @*Place your contents here*@
    </Content>
</TelerikDrawer>

@code {
    public TelerikDrawer<DrawerItem> DrawerRef { get; set; }
    public bool Expanded { get; set; } = true;
    public IEnumerable<DrawerItem> Data { get; set; } =
        new List<DrawerItem>
        {
            new DrawerItem { Text = "Counter", Icon = IconName.Plus},
            new DrawerItem { Text = "FetchData", Icon = IconName.GridLayout},
            };

    public class DrawerItem
    {
        public string Text { get; set; }

        public string Icon { get; set; }

        public string Url { get; set; }

        public bool IsSeparator { get; set; }
    }
}

````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![drawer basic example](images/drawer-basic-example.gif)


## See Also

  * [Drawer Overview Demo]()
  * [Drawer Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%})
  * [Drawer Events]({%slug drawer-events%})
  * [Drawer Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%})
  * [Drawer Selection]({%slug drawer-selection%})
  * [Drawer Data Binding]({%slug drawer-data-binding%})

Commit message:

docs(drawer): Updates on overview article; initial commit of Modes article /the Overlay mode is not ready/

components/drawer/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Drawer for Blazor Overview
description: Overview of the Drawer for Blazor
slug: drawer-overview
tags: telerik,blazor,drawer,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Drawer Overview

The Drawer component is a dismissible or permanently visible panel for navigating in responsive web applications. It allows switching the content of different sections of the page.

To use a Telerik Drawer for Blazor

1. add the `TelerikDrawer` tag
1. populate its `Data` property with the collection of items you want the user to see


>caption The Drawer provides the following features:

* `Data` - a collection of flat data for all items in the Drawer.
* `Position` - you can control the position of the Drawer, through the `DrawerPosition` enum.
The members of the enum are:
 * `Left` - the default position
 * `Right`
* `Expanded` - specify whether the Drawer is expanded or collapsed. It's main purpose is to set the initial state of the Drawer. To toggle the drawer read the [ToogleAsync](#toggleasync) section.
* `Width` - the width of the Drawer when in Expanded mode.
* `Class` - the CSS class that will be rendered on the main wrapping element of the Drawer.
* `Mode` - control whether the Drawer is in `Push` or `Overlay` mode. For more information read the [Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%}) article.
* `MiniMode` - when the Drawer is collapsed control whether there is mini menu. For more information read the [Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%}) article.
* `Content` - acces the `<Content>` child tag of `<TelerikDrawer>` to render a component or custom HTML as the content of the Drawer.
* `SelectedItem` - Bindable property that contains the currently selected item in the Drawer. For more information read the [Selection]({%slug drawer-selection%}) article.
* `SelectedItemChanged` - read the [Events]({%slug drawer-events%}) article for more information.
* `Template` - define a custom template for the entire Drawer. For more information read the [Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%}) article.
* `ItemTemplate` - define a custom template for the Items of the Drawer. For more information read the [Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%}) article
* `Icon` / `IconClass` / `ImageUrl` - the [Telerik icon]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}), a class for a custom font icon, or the URL to a raster image that will be rendered in the item. They have the listed order of precedence in case more than one is present in the data (that is, an `Icon` will have the highest importance).

## Methods

The Drawer methods are accessible through it's reference.

### ExpandAsync

The `ExpandAsync` method allows you to change the state of the Drawer so it is expanded and add some custom logic.

### CollapseAsync

The `CollapseAsync` method allows you to change the state of the Drawer so it is in [MiniMode]({%slug drawer-mini-mode%}) (collapsed) and add some custom logic.

### ToggleAsync

The `ToggleAsync` method allows you to expand or collapse the component depending on the current state of the Drawer.


## Example

````CSHTML
@* This example shows the basic configuration of the Drawer and how to expand or collapse a Drawer with a click of a button. *@

@*The Expanded boolean variable sets the initial state of the Drawer.*@

<TelerikDrawer Expanded="Expanded"
               Data="Data"
               MiniMode="true"
               Mode="DrawerMode.Push"
               @ref="DrawerRef">
    <Content>
        <TelerikButton OnClick="@(() => DrawerRef.ToggleAsync())" Icon="rows">Toggle drawer</TelerikButton>

        @*Place your contents here*@
    </Content>
</TelerikDrawer>

@code {
    public TelerikDrawer<DrawerItem> DrawerRef { get; set; }
    public bool Expanded { get; set; } = true;
    public IEnumerable<DrawerItem> Data { get; set; } =
        new List<DrawerItem>
        {
            new DrawerItem { Text = "Counter", Icon = IconName.Plus},
            new DrawerItem { Text = "FetchData", Icon = IconName.GridLayout},
            };

    public class DrawerItem
    {
        public string Text { get; set; }

        public string Icon { get; set; }

        public string Url { get; set; }

        public bool IsSeparator { get; set; }
    }
}

````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![drawer basic example](images/drawer-basic-example.gif)


## See Also

  * [Drawer Overview Demo]()
  * [Drawer Modes]({%slug drawer-modes%})
  * [Drawer Events]({%slug drawer-events%})
  * [Drawer Templates]({%slug drawer-templates%})
  * [Drawer Selection]({%slug drawer-selection%})
  * [Drawer Data Binding]({%slug drawer-data-binding%})
