getting-started/vs-integration/latest-version-retrieval.md, before:

---
title: Downloading New Versions
page_title: Downloading New Versions | Visual Studio Integration | Telerik UI for Blazor
description: "Learn how to keep your projects updated when using Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor."
slug: getting-started-vs-integration-latest-version
position: 3
---

# Downloading New Versions

The Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor Visual Studio (VS) extensions enable you to keep your projects updated.

## Latest Version Retrieval Tool

The Latest Version Retrieval tool automatically checks for the latest Telerik UI for Blazor distribution which is available for you on the Telerik website. Once a day, upon loading a project with Telerik UI for Blazor components, the extensions query the Telerik website for a new version of Telerik UI for Blazor. When a new version is detected, a notification is displayed that lets you download it.

![Getting the latest version notification](images/lva_notification.png)

Clicking the **Update Now** button starts the Latest Version Acquirer tool which prompts for your Telerik credentials on its first page. If you do not have a [www.telerik.com](https://www.telerik.com) account, you can create one through the **Create an account for free** link.

![Getting the latest version dialog](images/lva1.png)

## The Download Process

1. Go to the [release notes of the Telerik UI for ASP.NET Core distribution](http://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/aspnet-core-ui/release-history) to get information on the latest available versions.
1. To avoid having to enter your Telerik credentials multiple times, use the **Save my password** checkbox. The persistence is securely done and the credentials are saved in a per-user context. Other users on the machine do not have access to your stored credentials.
1. In the dialog that appears, confirm the download.

    ![Confirming the download of the latest version dialog](images/lva2.png)

    As a result, the latest version automatically starts to download.

    ![The download of the latest version is in progress dialog](images/lva3.png)

1. Click **OK** when the download process of the latest version completes.

    ![The download of the latest version is complete dialog](images/lva4.png)

1. To access the latest version of Telerik UI for ASP.NET Core, after the download completes, go to **New Project Wizard**.

    > * The **Download** buttons of the **New Project Wizard** launch the **Latest Version Acquirer** tool.
    > * The **Latest Version Acquirer** tool downloads the `.zip` files which contain the latest Telerik UI for ASP.NET Core binaries and any resources that are vital for a Telerik UI for ASP.NET Core application. These get unpacked in the `%APPDATA%\Telerik\Updates` folder by default. If you find the list of the offered packages too long and you do not need the older versions, close the VS and use the Windows Explorer to delete these distributions.

## See Also

* [Visual Studio Extensions Overview]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-overview %})
* [Creating New Projects with Visual Studio]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project %})

Commit message:

docs(common): update latest version retrieval

getting-started/vs-integration/latest-version-retrieval.md, after:

---
title: Download New Versions
page_title: Download New Versions | Visual Studio Integration | Telerik UI for Blazor
description: "Learn how to keep your projects updated when using Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor."
slug: getting-started-vs-integration-latest-version
position: 3
---

# Download New Versions

The Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor Visual Studio (VS) extensions enable you to keep your projects updated.


The Latest Version Retrieval tool automatically checks for the latest Telerik UI for Blazor distribution which is available for you on the Telerik website. Once a day, upon loading a project with Telerik UI for Blazor components, the extensions query the Telerik website for a new version of Telerik UI for Blazor. When a new version is detected, a notification is displayed that lets you download it.

![Getting the latest version notification](images/lva_notification.png)

Clicking the **Update Now** button starts the Latest Version Acquirer tool which prompts for your Telerik credentials on its first page. If you do not have a [www.telerik.com](https://www.telerik.com) account, you can create one through the **Create an account for free** link.

1. Log in with your Telerik credentials

    >tip To avoid having to enter your Telerik credentials multiple times, use the **Save my password** checkbox. The persistence is securely done and the credentials are saved in a per-user context. Other users on the machine do not have access to your stored credentials.

    ![First, log in](images/login-vs-ext-download.png)

    >tip You can go to the [release notes of Telerik UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/support/whats-new/blazor-ui/release-history) to get information on the latest available versions and what they bring.

1. In the dialog that appears, click the **Download** button and follow the next steps.

    ![Confirming the download of the latest version dialog](images/download-new-version.png)

1. To access the latest version of Telerik UI for Blazor that you just downloaded go to [New Project Wizard]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project %}).

    >tip The **Download** and **Get Latest** buttons of the **New Project Wizard** launch the **Latest Version Acquirer** tool. If you are coming from them, you will be returned to that context, so you can choose the newer version now.

    ![The new version is now available in the New Project wizard](images/new-version-in-new-project-wizard.png)
    
    
>tip The **Latest Version Acquirer** tool downloads a `.zip` file which contains the latest Telerik UI for Blazor packages. It is saved in the `%APPDATA%\Telerik\Updates` folder by default. If you find the list of the offered packages too long and you do not need the older versions, close VS and use the Windows Explorer to delete these distributions.

## See Also

* [Visual Studio Extensions Overview]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-overview %})
* [Creating New Projects with Visual Studio]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project %})
