getting-started/vs-integration/new-project-wizard.md, before:

---
title: Create New Projects
page_title: Create New Project | Visual Studio Integration | Telerik UI for Blazor
description: "Learn how to create a new Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor project with our Visual Studio Templates."
slug: getting-started-vs-integration-new-project
position: 2
---

# Create New Projects

This article demonstrates how to create a new application that has the Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor components working.

To create a new Telerik UI for Blazor application, use the **Create New Project Wizard**. The wizard detects all installed versions of Telerik UI for Blazor and lists them in the **Version** combobox&mdash;this enables you to start your project with the desired version.

To start the wizard, use either of the following approaches:

* Using the **Extensions** menu:

    1. Open the **Extensions** menu.
    1. Click **Telerik** > **Telerik UI for Blazor** > **Create New Telerik Project**.
    1. Follow the wizard.

* Using the **Project** menu:

    1. Click **File** > **New** > **Project**.
    1. Find and click the **Telerik C# Blazor Application** option (you can use the search, or filter by Blazor templates).
    1. Follow the wizard.

You will have the standard options to select a location and name for your app, and then you will receive a list of predefined templates:

![The Create New Project Wizard Templates Options](images/new-project-wizard-templates-options.png)



To get a better understanding of what the wizard does for you, see either of the following articles:

* [Getting Started with Client-side apps]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})
* [Getting Started with Server-side apps]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})
* [Overview of what you need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%})

## See Also

* [Visual Studio Extensions Overview]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-overview %})
* [Downloading the Latest Telerik UI for Blazor Versions]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-latest-version %})
* [Getting Started with Client-side apps]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})
* [Getting Started with Server-side apps]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})
* [Overview of what you need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%})

Commit message:

docs(common): update latest version retrieval

getting-started/vs-integration/new-project-wizard.md, after:

---
title: Create New Project
page_title: Create New Project | Visual Studio Integration | Telerik UI for Blazor
description: "Learn how to create a new Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor project with our Visual Studio Templates."
slug: getting-started-vs-integration-new-project
position: 2
---

# Create New Projects

This article demonstrates how to create a new application that has the Progress&reg; Telerik&reg; UI for Blazor components working.

To create a new Telerik UI for Blazor application, use the **Create New Project Wizard**. The wizard detects all installed versions of Telerik UI for Blazor and lists them in the **Version** combobox&mdash;this enables you to start your project with the desired version. You can also [get the latest version]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-latest-version%}) to make sure you are up to date.

To start the wizard, use either of the following approaches:

* Using the **Extensions** menu:

    1. Open the **Extensions** menu.
    1. Click **Telerik** > **Telerik UI for Blazor** > **Create New Telerik Project**.
    1. Follow the wizard.

* Using the **Project** menu:

    1. Click **File** > **New** > **Project**.
    1. Find and click the **Telerik C# Blazor Application** option (you can use the search, or filter by Blazor templates).
    1. Follow the wizard.

You will have the standard options to select a location and name for your app, and then you will receive a list of predefined **Telerik templates** and the **Telerik Blazor versions** list to choose from:

![The Create New Project Wizard Templates Options](images/new-project-wizard-templates-options.png)



To get a better understanding of what the wizard does for you, see either of the following articles:

* [Getting Started with Client-side apps]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})
* [Getting Started with Server-side apps]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})
* [Overview of what you need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%})

## See Also

* [Visual Studio Extensions Overview]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-overview %})
* [Downloading the Latest Telerik UI for Blazor Versions]({% slug getting-started-vs-integration-latest-version %})
* [Getting Started with Client-side apps]({%slug getting-started/client-side%})
* [Getting Started with Server-side apps]({%slug getting-started/server-side%})
* [Overview of what you need]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%})
