---
title: 4.0.0
description: Handle the rendering changes in the 4.0.0 release of the Telerik UI for Blazor components.
page_title: Rendering Changes in 4.0.0
slug: rendering-changes-in-4-0-0
position: 3
---

# Rendering Changes in 4.0.0

* [Calendar](#calendar)
* [Card](#card)
* [Common - Date pickers](#common---date-pickers)
* [Common - Selects](#common-selects)
* [Dialog](#dialog)
* [Editor](#editor)
* [Form](#form)
* [Grid](#grid)
* [ListView](#listview)
* [MultiSelect](#multiselect)
* [Notification](#notification)
* [ProgressBar](#progressbar)
* [ChunkProgressBar](#chunkprogressbar)
* [Splitter](#splitter)
* [Toolbar](#toolbar)
* [TreeList](#treelist)
* [Pager](#pager)
* [Upload](#upload)
* [Window](#upload)


## Calendar

* Changed `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button.

## Card

* Renamed the following classes:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
|`k-card-actions-start`|`k-actions-start`|
|`k-card-actions-end`|`k-actions-end`|
|`k-card-actions-center`|`k-actions-center`|
|`k-card-actions-stretched`|`k-actions-stretched`|

## Common - Date Pickers

* All date pickers that icorporate calendar inherit the change of the `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button.
* Added `k-[COMPONENT]-popup` class to the popup element of all date pickers.

## Common - Selects

* Added `k-[COMPONENT]-popup` class to the popup element of all selects.

## Dialog

* Renamed `k-dialog-actions` class to `k-dialog-titlebar-actions`.
* Added `k-dialog-titlebar-action` class to the action buttons.
* Removed `k-dialog-buttongroup` in favor to `k-dialog-actions`.
* Added `k-window-*` classes to the corresponding Dialog elements.

## Editor

* Added `k-editor-window` class to all popups
* Added `k-editor-toolbar` class to the Editor Toolbar

## Form

* Added `k-form-{size}` to the main wrapping element of the component (`<form class="k-form">`). Necessary to introduce the [`Size` options of the Form]({%slug %}).

## Grid

* Wrapped sorting icon in a `<span class="k-sort-icon">`

````HTML
   <span class="k-sort-icon">
          <span class="k-icon k-i-sort-asc-small"></span>
    </span>
````

* Added `k-table-md` class to the `<table>` element - this ensures the defauld medium size of all elements in the `<table>`.

* Added Grid-specific classes added to header, body and footer tables - `k-grid-header-table`, `k-grid-table`, `k-grid-footer-table`.

* Added table-specific classes to the table elements of the Grid:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
| `<table>` | `<table class="k-table">` |
| `<thead>` | `<thead class="k-table-thead">` |
| `<tbody>` | `<tbody class="k-table-tbody">` |
| `<tfoot>` | `<tfoot class="k-table-tfoot">` |
| `<th>`  | `<th class="k-table-th">`  |
| `<tr>` |  `<tr class="k-table-row">` |
| `<td>` | `<td class="k-table-td">` |
| `<tr class="k-grouping-row">` | `<tr class="k-table-group-row">` |

### Grid Grouping

* Removed `<div class="k-indicator-container">` in favor of `<div class="k-chip>`. The Group value is now rendered in a `<span class="k-chip-content">`. The close icon is now rendered in a `<span class="k-chip-actions">` container.
* Changed the close icon from `Icon="x"` to `Icon="x-circle"`.
* Removed the `k-grouping-header-flex` class from the grouping header.
* Renamed the class of the empty `<div class="k-indicator-container">` to `<div class="k-grouping-drop-container">`.

## ListView

* Added `<div class="k-listview-item">` wrapper to Item Template.

## MultiSelect

* Added `k-text-ellipsis` class to the `<span class="k-chip-label>` element.
* Removed `k-input-values` and `k-selection-multiple` classes from the `<div class="k-chip-list">` element.
* Wrapped the `<div class="k-chip-list">` element in a `<div class="k-input-values">` container.


## Notification

* Removed `<div class="k-notification-wrap">` element.
* Replaced closable Notification icon `<a class="k-icon k-i-x">` replaced with a `<span class="k-icon k-i-x">` element
* Wrapped the closable icon in a `<span class="k-notification-actions">` container.

## ProgressBar

* Added `k-progressbar-progress` class to the `<div class="k-selected>` element.
* Changed the inline style of the `<div class="k-progressbar>` from `--kendo-progressbar-progress` to `--kendo-progressbar-value`. (This style conrols the progress width/height.)

## ChunkProgressBar

* Added `k-chunk-progressbar` class to the main wrapping element of the component (`<div class="k-progressbar>`).
* Added `k-progressbar-chunks` class to the `<ul>` element.
* Replaced the `k-item` class of the `<li>` elements with `k-progressbar-chunk` class.


<!-- ## Splitter -->

<!-- * Removed splitbar icon class.... -->

## Toolbar

* Added `k-toolbar-resizable` class to the main wrapping element of the component (`<div class="k-toolbar>`). Applicable when the Toolbar is responsive.
* Renamed `k-overflow-anchor` class to `k-toolbar-overflow-button` class
* Added Toolbar-specific class to all built-in tools(`k-toolbar-button`, `k-toolbar-toggle-button`, `k-toolbar-button-group` and more)
* All template items are wrapped in `<div class="k-toolbar-item">`.
* When the Toolbar is part of the Filter component, `FilterExpression` items have a `k-toolbar-item` class. Applicable only if said item is a complex one(containing either a select/input component).

## Treelist

* Added table-specific classes to the table elements of the TreeList:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
| `<table>` | `<table class="k-table">` |
| `<thead>` | `<thead class="k-table-thead">` |
| `<tbody>` | `<tbody class="k-table-tbody">` |
| `<tfoot>` | `<tfoot class="k-table-tfoot">` |
| `<th>`  | `<th class="k-table-th">`  |
| `<tr>` |  `<tr class="k-table-row">` |
| `<td>` | `<td class="k-table-td">` |
| `<tr class="k-grouping-row">` | `<tr class="k-table-group-row">` |

## Pager

* Replaced `<ul class="k-pager-numbers">` with a `<div class="k-pager-numbers">`.
* Replaced navigation buttons `<a class="k-link k-page-nav">` with flat buttons `<button class="k-pager-nav k-button k-button-{size} k-button-flat k-button-flat-base k-icon-button">`.
* Replaced page numbers `<span class="k-link>` with flat primary buttons `<button class="k-button k-button-{size} k-button-flat k-button-flat-primary">`
* Removed `k-floatwrap`, `k-link` and `k-pager-wrap` classes.

## Upload

* Replaced all `<em>`, `<strong>`, etc. html elements are replaced with `<span>` or `<div>`.
* Added `k-upload-dropzone` class to `<div class="k-dropzone">`.
* Replaced `k-dropzone-hover/hovered` with class `k-hover`.
* Upload `button` and `input` are no longer nested but are on one level wrapped inside a `<div class="k-upload-button-wrap">`
* Removed `k-upload-status-total` class from `<div class="k-upload-status k-upload-status-total">`
* Removed `k-validation-icon` class from `upload-status` icon
* Added `k-file-error` class to `<li class="k-file-invalid">`.
* Added `k-file-single` and `k-file-multiple` wrapper elements inside `k-file` for single and multiple files respectively.
* Replaced `k-file-group-wrapper`, `k-file-invalid-group-wrapper`, `k-multiple-files-group-wrapper` and `k-multiple-files-invalid-group-wrapper` classes with `k-file-icon-wrapper` class.
* Replaced `k-file-group` icon class with `k-file-icon`class.
* Replaced `k-file-name-size-wrap` class with `k-file-info` class.
* Removed `k-file-name-invalid` class from `<span class="k-file-name k-file-name-invalid">`.
* Removed `k-text-success` and `k-text-error` classes from `<span class="k-validation-message">`
* Replaced `k-file-information` class with `k-file-summary` class.
* Replaced `k-upload-status` class of the action buttons wrapper with `k-upload-actions` class.
* Progress bar replaced with the ProgressBar component without visible labels.



## Window

* `k-window-titleless` class removed
* Replaced `k-window-actions` in titlebar with `k-window-titlebar-actions`
* Replaced `k-window-buttongroup`, `k-window-buttons` classes with `k-window-actions` class
* Added `k-window-titlebar-action` class to action buttons inside titlebar
* Removed `k-dialog-` classes

