components/grid/templates/column-header.md, before:

---
title: Column Header
page_title: Grid - Column Header Template
description: Use custom column header templates in Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-templates-column-header
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,templates,column,header
published: True
position: 20
---

# Column Header Template

Bound columns render the name of the field or their `Title` in their header. Through the `HeaderTemplate`, you can define custom content there instead of the title text.

>tip If you only want to center and wrap the column header text, you can achieve that with some custom CSS as shown in [this knowledge base article]({%slug grid-kb-center-column-header-content%}).

>caption Sample Header Template

````CSHTML
@* Header templates override the built-in title but leave sorting indicators and filter menu icons *@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Height="300px" Pageable="true" Sortable="true" FilterMode="@GridFilterMode.FilterMenu">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Title="This title will not be rendered">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span>Employee ID</span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                Employee<br /><strong>Name</strong>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="HireDate" Width="350px">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                Hire date<br />
                <TelerikButton OnClick="@DoSomething">Do something</TelerikButton>
                <br />
                @{
                    if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(result))
                    {
                        <span style="color:red;">@result</span>
                    }
                    else
                    {
                        <div>something will appear here if you click the button</div>
                    }
                }
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn>
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span>
                    <TelerikIcon Icon="image" />
                    Column with Icon
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    string result { get; set; }
    void DoSomething()
    {
        result = $"button in header template clicked on {DateTime.Now}, something happened";
    }

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }

    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "name " + x,
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x)
    });
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/header-template.png)

>note Header Templates are not available for the `GridCheckboxColumn` and the `GridCommandColumn`.

## See Also

 * [Live Demo: Grid Templates](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/templates)
 * [Live Demo: Grid Custom Editor Template](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/customeditor)

Commit message:

chore(grid)kb improvements - added tags, notes, linked them from header template article

components/grid/templates/column-header.md, after:

---
title: Column Header
page_title: Grid - Column Header Template
description: Use custom column header templates in Grid for Blazor.
slug: grid-templates-column-header
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,templates,column,header
published: True
position: 20
---

# Column Header Template

Bound columns render the name of the field or their `Title` in their header. Through the `HeaderTemplate`, you can define custom content there instead of the title text.

>tip If you only want to center or wrap and center the column header text, you can achieve that with some custom CSS. You can try one of the following approaches depending on the desired result - [Center Grid Column Header content]({%slug grid-kb-center-column-header-content%}) or [Wrap and center the Grid column header text]({%slug grid-kb-wrap-and-center-column-header-text%}).

>caption Sample Header Template

````CSHTML
@* Header templates override the built-in title but leave sorting indicators and filter menu icons *@

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Height="300px" Pageable="true" Sortable="true" FilterMode="@GridFilterMode.FilterMenu">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Title="This title will not be rendered">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span>Employee ID</span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                Employee<br /><strong>Name</strong>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="HireDate" Width="350px">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                Hire date<br />
                <TelerikButton OnClick="@DoSomething">Do something</TelerikButton>
                <br />
                @{
                    if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(result))
                    {
                        <span style="color:red;">@result</span>
                    }
                    else
                    {
                        <div>something will appear here if you click the button</div>
                    }
                }
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn>
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span>
                    <TelerikIcon Icon="image" />
                    Column with Icon
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    string result { get; set; }
    void DoSomething()
    {
        result = $"button in header template clicked on {DateTime.Now}, something happened";
    }

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }

    public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 50).Select(x => new SampleData
    {
        Id = x,
        Name = "name " + x,
        HireDate = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-x)
    });
}
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![](images/header-template.png)

>note Header Templates are not available for the `GridCheckboxColumn` and the `GridCommandColumn`.

## See Also

 * [Live Demo: Grid Templates](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/templates)
 * [Live Demo: Grid Custom Editor Template](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/customeditor)
