themes/overview.md, before:

---
title: Built-in Themes
page_title: Themes
description: The built-in themes in the UI for Blazor components
slug: general-information/themes
previous_url: /themes
tags: telerik,blazor,theme,built-in
published: True
position: 0
---

# Built-in Themes

The UI for Blazor suite comes with a set of built-in themes that you can choose from to alter the visual appearance of the Telerik components:

* **Default** - our own neutral styling that suits most cases.
* **Bootstrap** - a theme that matches the Bootstrap styling. Read more in the [Bootstrap Notes](#bootstrap-notes) section.
* **Material** - implements the [Material Design Guidelines](https://material.io/design/).

These themes are shared with the Kendo UI suites with which the UI for Blazor suite shares HTML rendering, classes and appearance (even though UI for Blazor are native Blazor components).

To use a theme, you must reference its stylesheet in the `<head>` of your main index file. For a [client-side Blazor app]({%slug getting-started/client-side%}), this is `wwwroot/index.html` and for a [server-side Blazor app]({%slug getting-started/server-side%}), it is `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml`. The Razor syntax for a server application differs and you need to escape the `@` symbols as `@@`.

This article contains the following sections:

* [Static Assets](#static-assets)
* [CDN](#cdn)
* [Optional Dependency Management](#optional-dependency-management)
	* [Libman](#libman)
	* [NPM Packages](#npm-packages)
* [Bootstrap Notes](#bootstrap-notes)

## Static Assets

Static assets are part of the NuGet package that the framework will copy to the output folder during build. They allow you to rely only on local resources for the app and do not need to be changed in the future.

>caption Reference the Telerik theme from the static assets

````HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    . . .
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-default/all.css" />
    
    <!-- Choose only one of the themes -->
    <!-- 
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-bootstrap/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-material/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
    -->
    
    <!-- For Trial licenses use one of the following -->
    <!--
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-default/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-bootstrap/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-material/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
      -->
</head>

 . . .
 
</html>
````


## CDN

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#cdn)


## Optional Dependency Management

Instead of a CDN or our static assets, you can fetch the stylesheet into your project to, for example, customize the theme, or to bundle it with other stylesheets. To do this, you can:

* [Use LibMan client-side dependency manager](#libman).
* [Use the NPM packages](#npm-packages).

### Libman
The [LibMan client-side dependency manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/libman/?view=aspnetcore-2.2) is built-in ASP.NET Core:

1. In the server application root, add the `libman.json` file with the following content:

    **libman.json**

        {
          "version": "1.0",
          "defaultProvider": "unpkg",
          "libraries": [
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-default@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/default",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            },
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-bootstrap@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/bootstrap",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            },
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-material@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/material",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
        
        
    >note There have been some reports that the `@latest` version sometimes does not work with a message similar to `The "@progress/kendo-theme-material@latest" library could not be resolved by the "unpkg" provider`. If trying again a bit later does not help, you can replace the `@latest` moniker with the current latest version of the theme that you can find at the [Themes Repo Releases section](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-themes/releases). For example, `^3.0.0` to get the latest version of the major release `3`. If you commit such a version, you may want to check for updates after a while.

1. In the client Blazor application, go to the `wwwroot/index.html` file and replace the CDN link with the following one. For a server-side Blazor project, do that in the `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml` file.

    **Index file with local stylesheet**
    
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <html>
        <head>
            . . .
            <link href="/css/kendo-themes/default/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
            <!-- Choose only one of the themes -->
            <!-- <link href="/css/kendo-themes/bootstrap/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <link href="/css/kendo-themes/material/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet" /> -->
        </head>
        
            . . .
            
        </html>

### NPM Packages

The Kendo UI Sass-based themes are located on the Progress NPM registry:

* **Kendo UI Default Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-default.
* **Kendo UI Bootstrap v4 Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-bootstrap.
* **Kendo UI Material Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-material.

You can read more about using this approach in the [Custom Theme - Manual Process]({%slug themes-custom%}#manual-alternative) article.

## Bootstrap Notes

The Telerik Bootstrap Theme has a design that is similar to the Bootstrap framework style so you can better integrate the Telerik components in an app that already uses Bootstrap for layouts and styles.

Bootstrap and Telerik UI for Blazor are two completely separate products that do not share classes or code, however. You can use Bootstrap to create layouts and then put our components in those layouts by treating them like the `<span>` or `<div>` elements that they are. You can use Bootstrap classes and utilities on your own elements in the markup regardless of the components inside.

The Telerik Bootstrap theme is not the same as the Bootstrap framework (or styles), it is our own theme that uses the Bootstrap metrics and design approaches to fit into a Bootstrap layout better. It can also use customized variables from Bootstrap, and you can see one way to do that through building the SASS files for both Bootstrap and Telerik in the following sample app: [https://github.com/telerik/blazor-dashboard](https://github.com/telerik/blazor-dashboard).

## See Also

  * [Custom Themes]({%slug themes-custom%})
  * [Style Form Elements]({%slug themes-form-elements%})
  * [Live Demos](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/)
  * [Change Theme at Runtime]({%slug change-theme-runtime%})

Commit message:

Seo metadata update (#95)
* chore(common): title prefix (wip)

* chore(api): api ref metadata update

* chore(common): seo titles update per areas

* chore(common): fix title issues

* chore(common): add traling dots to meta description

* chore(common): fix pages that got broken

* chore(kb): touch up the meta description suffix

* chore(api): attempt metadata

* chore(api): attempt for api index metadata 2

* chore(api): revert api index metadata attempts - they don't work

* chore(common): intro page metadata

* chore(common): custom metadata for some pages

* chore(common): replace pipes with dashes in titles for seo

themes/overview.md, after:

---
title: Built-in Themes
page_title: Themes
description: The UI for Blazor suite comes with a set of built-in themes that you can choose from. Bootstrap and Material themes are also included.
slug: general-information/themes
previous_url: /themes
tags: telerik,blazor,theme,built-in
published: True
position: 0
---

# Built-in Themes

The UI for Blazor suite comes with a set of built-in themes that you can choose from to alter the visual appearance of the Telerik components:

* **Default** - our own neutral styling that suits most cases.
* **Bootstrap** - a theme that matches the Bootstrap styling. Read more in the [Bootstrap Notes](#bootstrap-notes) section.
* **Material** - implements the [Material Design Guidelines](https://material.io/design/).

These themes are shared with the Kendo UI suites with which the UI for Blazor suite shares HTML rendering, classes and appearance (even though UI for Blazor are native Blazor components).

To use a theme, you must reference its stylesheet in the `<head>` of your main index file. For a [client-side Blazor app]({%slug getting-started/client-side%}), this is `wwwroot/index.html` and for a [server-side Blazor app]({%slug getting-started/server-side%}), it is `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml`. The Razor syntax for a server application differs and you need to escape the `@` symbols as `@@`.

This article contains the following sections:

* [Static Assets](#static-assets)
* [CDN](#cdn)
* [Optional Dependency Management](#optional-dependency-management)
	* [Libman](#libman)
	* [NPM Packages](#npm-packages)
* [Bootstrap Notes](#bootstrap-notes)

## Static Assets

Static assets are part of the NuGet package that the framework will copy to the output folder during build. They allow you to rely only on local resources for the app and do not need to be changed in the future.

>caption Reference the Telerik theme from the static assets

````HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    . . .
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-default/all.css" />
    
    <!-- Choose only one of the themes -->
    <!-- 
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-bootstrap/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor/css/kendo-theme-material/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
    -->
    
    <!-- For Trial licenses use one of the following -->
    <!--
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-default/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-bootstrap/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <link href="_content/Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial/css/kendo-theme-material/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
      -->
</head>

 . . .
 
</html>
````


## CDN

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#cdn)


## Optional Dependency Management

Instead of a CDN or our static assets, you can fetch the stylesheet into your project to, for example, customize the theme, or to bundle it with other stylesheets. To do this, you can:

* [Use LibMan client-side dependency manager](#libman).
* [Use the NPM packages](#npm-packages).

### Libman
The [LibMan client-side dependency manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/libman/?view=aspnetcore-2.2) is built-in ASP.NET Core:

1. In the server application root, add the `libman.json` file with the following content:

    **libman.json**

        {
          "version": "1.0",
          "defaultProvider": "unpkg",
          "libraries": [
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-default@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/default",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            },
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-bootstrap@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/bootstrap",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            },
            {
              "library": "@progress/kendo-theme-material@latest",
              "destination": "wwwroot/css/kendo-themes/material",
              "files": [
                "dist/all.css"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
        
        
    >note There have been some reports that the `@latest` version sometimes does not work with a message similar to `The "@progress/kendo-theme-material@latest" library could not be resolved by the "unpkg" provider`. If trying again a bit later does not help, you can replace the `@latest` moniker with the current latest version of the theme that you can find at the [Themes Repo Releases section](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-themes/releases). For example, `^3.0.0` to get the latest version of the major release `3`. If you commit such a version, you may want to check for updates after a while.

1. In the client Blazor application, go to the `wwwroot/index.html` file and replace the CDN link with the following one. For a server-side Blazor project, do that in the `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml` file.

    **Index file with local stylesheet**
    
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <html>
        <head>
            . . .
            <link href="/css/kendo-themes/default/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
            <!-- Choose only one of the themes -->
            <!-- <link href="/css/kendo-themes/bootstrap/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <link href="/css/kendo-themes/material/dist/all.css" rel="stylesheet" /> -->
        </head>
        
            . . .
            
        </html>

### NPM Packages

The Kendo UI Sass-based themes are located on the Progress NPM registry:

* **Kendo UI Default Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-default.
* **Kendo UI Bootstrap v4 Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-bootstrap.
* **Kendo UI Material Theme**&mdash;Available as @progress/kendo-theme-material.

You can read more about using this approach in the [Custom Theme - Manual Process]({%slug themes-custom%}#manual-alternative) article.

## Bootstrap Notes

The Telerik Bootstrap Theme has a design that is similar to the Bootstrap framework style so you can better integrate the Telerik components in an app that already uses Bootstrap for layouts and styles.

Bootstrap and Telerik UI for Blazor are two completely separate products that do not share classes or code, however. You can use Bootstrap to create layouts and then put our components in those layouts by treating them like the `<span>` or `<div>` elements that they are. You can use Bootstrap classes and utilities on your own elements in the markup regardless of the components inside.

The Telerik Bootstrap theme is not the same as the Bootstrap framework (or styles), it is our own theme that uses the Bootstrap metrics and design approaches to fit into a Bootstrap layout better. It can also use customized variables from Bootstrap, and you can see one way to do that through building the SASS files for both Bootstrap and Telerik in the following sample app: [https://github.com/telerik/blazor-dashboard](https://github.com/telerik/blazor-dashboard).

## See Also

  * [Custom Themes]({%slug themes-custom%})
  * [Style Form Elements]({%slug themes-form-elements%})
  * [Live Demos](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/)
  * [Change Theme at Runtime]({%slug change-theme-runtime%})
