components/chart/types/scatter.md, before:

---
title: Scatter
page_title: Chart for Blazor | Scatter
description: Overview of the Scatter Chart for Blazor
slug: components/chart/types/scatter
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,scatter
published: True
position: 0
---

# Scatter Chart

A **Scatter** chart shows data as points defined by their items' values. Its x-axis is also numerical and does not require categorical items, but numerical values. 

Scatter charts are useful for showing the relation between different sets of data, for example scientific (experimental) results.

>caption Scatter chart. Results from the first code snippet below

![](images/basic-scatter-chart.png)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#understand-basics-and-databinding-first)

To create a scatter chart:

1. add a `ChartSeries` to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection
2. set its `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.Scatter`
3. provide a data collection to its `Data` property, which contains numerical data for the X and Y axes


>caption A bubble chart that shows projected population change on a plot of life expectancy versus fertility rate

````CSHTML
@* Scatter Series *@

<TelerikChart>
    <ChartTitle Text="Unrecoverable Errors Per Minute vs. Signal Level"></ChartTitle>

    <ChartSeriesItems>
        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Scatter"
                     Data="@Series1Data"
                     Name="APSK modulation"
                     XField="@nameof(ModelData.Strength)"
                     YField="@nameof(ModelData.Errors)">
        </ChartSeries>

        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Scatter"
                     Data="@Series2Data"
                     Name="QAM modulation"
                     XField="@nameof(ModelData.Strength)"
                     YField="@nameof(ModelData.Errors)">
        </ChartSeries>
    </ChartSeriesItems>

    <ChartXAxes>
        <ChartXAxis Max="-30" AxisCrossingValue="@(new object[] { -100 })">
            <ChartXAxisTitle Text="Signal Strength, dBm"></ChartXAxisTitle>
        </ChartXAxis>
    </ChartXAxes>

    <ChartYAxes>
        <ChartYAxis>
            <ChartYAxisTitle Text="Error count"></ChartYAxisTitle>
        </ChartYAxis>
    </ChartYAxes>
</TelerikChart>

@code {
    public class ModelData
    {
        public double Strength { get; set; }
        public double Errors { get; set; }
    }

    public List<ModelData> Series1Data = new List<ModelData>()
    {
       new ModelData { Strength = -82, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -79, Errors = 13  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -77, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -74, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 3  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 1  }
    };

    public List<ModelData> Series2Data = new List<ModelData>()
    {
       new ModelData { Strength = -80, Errors = 25  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -76, Errors = 22  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -73, Errors = 17  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 12  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -61, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -55, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -50, Errors = 3  }
    };
}
````


## Scatter Chart Specific Appearance Settings

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#markers-line-scatter)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#color-line-scatter)


## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Scatter Chart](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/chart/scatter-chart)

Commit message:

docs(chart): New Template for Nested settings in charts and added the template in the corresponding chart types

components/chart/types/scatter.md, after:

---
title: Scatter
page_title: Chart for Blazor | Scatter
description: Overview of the Scatter Chart for Blazor
slug: components/chart/types/scatter
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,scatter
published: True
position: 0
---

# Scatter Chart

A **Scatter** chart shows data as points defined by their items' values. Its x-axis is also numerical and does not require categorical items, but numerical values.

Scatter charts are useful for showing the relation between different sets of data, for example scientific (experimental) results.

>caption Scatter chart. Results from the first code snippet below

![](images/basic-scatter-chart.png)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#understand-basics-and-databinding-first)

To create a scatter chart:

1. add a `ChartSeries` to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection
2. set its `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.Scatter`
3. provide a data collection to its `Data` property, which contains numerical data for the X and Y axes


>caption A bubble chart that shows projected population change on a plot of life expectancy versus fertility rate

````CSHTML
@* Scatter Series *@

<TelerikChart>
    <ChartTitle Text="Unrecoverable Errors Per Minute vs. Signal Level"></ChartTitle>

    <ChartSeriesItems>
        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Scatter"
                     Data="@Series1Data"
                     Name="APSK modulation"
                     XField="@nameof(ModelData.Strength)"
                     YField="@nameof(ModelData.Errors)">
        </ChartSeries>

        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Scatter"
                     Data="@Series2Data"
                     Name="QAM modulation"
                     XField="@nameof(ModelData.Strength)"
                     YField="@nameof(ModelData.Errors)">
        </ChartSeries>
    </ChartSeriesItems>

    <ChartXAxes>
        <ChartXAxis Max="-30" AxisCrossingValue="@(new object[] { -100 })">
            <ChartXAxisTitle Text="Signal Strength, dBm"></ChartXAxisTitle>
        </ChartXAxis>
    </ChartXAxes>

    <ChartYAxes>
        <ChartYAxis>
            <ChartYAxisTitle Text="Error count"></ChartYAxisTitle>
        </ChartYAxis>
    </ChartYAxes>
</TelerikChart>

@code {
    public class ModelData
    {
        public double Strength { get; set; }
        public double Errors { get; set; }
    }

    public List<ModelData> Series1Data = new List<ModelData>()
    {
       new ModelData { Strength = -82, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -79, Errors = 13  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -77, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -74, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 3  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 1  }
    };

    public List<ModelData> Series2Data = new List<ModelData>()
    {
       new ModelData { Strength = -80, Errors = 25  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -76, Errors = 22  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -73, Errors = 17  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 12  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -61, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -55, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -50, Errors = 3  }
    };
}
````


## Scatter Chart Specific Appearance Settings

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#markers-line-scatter)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#color-line-scatter)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#configurable-nested-chart-settings)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#configurable-nested-chart-settings-numerical)

>tip See the code snippet above to observe setting the Labels' Text for the `ChartXAxis` and the `ChartYAxes`.

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Scatter Chart](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/chart/scatter-chart)
