components/window/events.md, before:

---
title: Events
page_title: Window - Events
description: Events of the Window for Blazor.
slug: window-events
tags: telerik,blazor,window,events
published: True
position: 20
---

# Window Events

This article explains the events available in the Telerik Window for Blazor:


* [VisibleChanged](#visiblechanged)
* [StateChanged](#statechanged)
* [Action Click](#action-click)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async) 


## VisibleChanged

You can use the `VisibleChanged` event to get notifications when the user tries to close the window. You can effectively cancel the event by *not* propagating the new visibility state to the variable the `Visible` property is bound to. This is the way to cancel the event and keep the window open.

>caption React to the user closing the window

````CSHTML
@result

<TelerikButton OnClick="@ToggleWindow">Toggle the Window</TelerikButton>

<TelerikWindow Visible="@isVisible" VisibleChanged="@VisibleChangedHandler">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>The Title</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowContent>
        This is my window <strong>popup</strong> content.
    </WindowContent>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Close" />
    </WindowActions>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    bool isVisible { get; set; }
    string result { get; set; }

    void VisibleChangedHandler(bool currVisible)
    {
        isVisible = currVisible; // if you don't do this, the window won't close because of the user action

        result = $"the window is now visible: {isVisible}";

        Console.WriteLine("The user closed the window with the [x] button on its toolbar");
    }

    public void ToggleWindow()
    {
        isVisible = !isVisible;

        result = $"the window is now visible: {isVisible}";
    }
}
````

>caption Prevent the user from closing the window based on a condition

````CSHTML
@* Not propagating the visible value from the handler to the model can prevent the user from closing the window
    Using the application code to explicitly set the visibility of the window will still close it as it will not fire the event*@

<TelerikButton OnClick="@( _ => isVisible = !isVisible )">Toggle the Window</TelerikButton>

<TelerikWindow Visible="@isVisible" VisibleChanged="@VisibleChangedHandler">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>The Title</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowContent>
        Try closing the window with the [x] button on its toolbar, then toggle the checkbox and try again.
        <br />
        <label>
            The user can close the window with the [x] button:
            <TelerikCheckBox @bind-Value="@isClosable" />
        </label>
    </WindowContent>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Close" />
    </WindowActions>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    bool isVisible { get; set; } = true;
    bool isClosable { get; set; }

    void VisibleChangedHandler(bool currVisible)
    {
        if (isClosable)
        {
            isVisible = currVisible; // if you don't do this, the window won't close because of the user action
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("The user tried to close the window but the code didn't let them");
        }

    }
}
````

## StateChanged

You can use the `StateChanged` event to get notifications when the user tries to minimize, maximize or restore the window. You can effectively cancel the event by *not* propagating the new state to the variable the `State` property is bound to.

>caption React to the user actions to minimize, restore or maximize the window

````CSHTML
@lastUserAction

<select @bind=@State>
    <option value=@WindowState.Default>Default</option>
    <option value=@WindowState.Minimized>Minimized</option>
    <option value=@WindowState.Maximized>Maximized</option>
</select>

<TelerikWindow State="@State" StateChanged="@StateChangedHandler" Width="500px" Height="300px" Visible="true"
               Top="500px" Left="600px">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>Lorem ipsum</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Minimize"></WindowAction>
        <WindowAction Name="Maximize"></WindowAction>
        <WindowAction Name="Close"></WindowAction>
    </WindowActions>
    <WindowContent>
        <select @bind=@State>
            <option value=@WindowState.Default>Default</option>
            <option value=@WindowState.Minimized>Minimized</option>
            <option value=@WindowState.Maximized>Maximized</option>
        </select>
    </WindowContent>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    public WindowState State { get; set; } = WindowState.Default;

    string lastUserAction;

    private void StateChangedHandler(WindowState windowState)
    {
        State = windowState; // if you don't do this, the window won't change because of the user action

        lastUserAction = $"last user action was: {windowState}";
    }
}
````

## Action Click

Actions expose the `OnClick` event. You can use it to implement custom buttons that invoke application logic from the Window's titlebar. See the [Window Actions]({%slug components/window/actions%}) article for examples.

If you use the `OnClick` event on a built-in action, it will act as a custom action and it will no longer perform the built-in feature (for example, close the window). If you want the invoke both a built-in action and custom logic from the same button, you have two options:

* Use the [VisibleChanged](#visiblechanged) and/or the [StateChanged](#statechanged) events to execute the custom logic on the user actions.
* Or, use two-way binding for the corresponding Window parameter (e.g., `@bind-Visible`, or `@bind-State`) and toggle its variable from the custom `OnClick` handler.

## See Also

  * [Window Overview]({%slug components/window/overview%})
  * [Window State]({%slug components/window/size%})
  * [Window Actions]({%slug components/window/actions%})

Commit message:

docs(window): notes on VisibleChanged

components/window/events.md, after:

---
title: Events
page_title: Window - Events
description: Events of the Window for Blazor.
slug: window-events
tags: telerik,blazor,window,events
published: True
position: 20
---

# Window Events

This article explains the events available in the Telerik Window for Blazor:


* [VisibleChanged](#visiblechanged)
* [StateChanged](#statechanged)
* [Action Click](#action-click)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async) 


## VisibleChanged

You can use the `VisibleChanged` event to get notifications when the user tries to close the window. You can effectively cancel the event by *not* propagating the new visibility state to the variable the `Visible` property is bound to. This is the way to cancel the event and keep the window open.

>caption React to the user closing the window

````CSHTML
@result

<TelerikButton OnClick="@ToggleWindow">Toggle the Window</TelerikButton>

<TelerikWindow Visible="@isVisible" VisibleChanged="@VisibleChangedHandler">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>The Title</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowContent>
        This is my window <strong>popup</strong> content.
    </WindowContent>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Close" />
    </WindowActions>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    bool isVisible { get; set; }
    string result { get; set; }

    void VisibleChangedHandler(bool currVisible)
    {
        isVisible = currVisible; // if you don't do this, the window won't close because of the user action

        result = $"the window is now visible: {isVisible}";

        Console.WriteLine("The user closed the window with the [x] button on its toolbar");
    }

    public void ToggleWindow()
    {
        isVisible = !isVisible;

        result = $"the window is now visible: {isVisible}";
    }
}
````

>caption Prevent the user from closing the window based on a condition

````CSHTML
@* Not propagating the visible value from the handler to the model can prevent the user from closing the window
    Using the application code to explicitly set the visibility of the window will still close it as it will not fire the event*@

<TelerikButton OnClick="@( _ => isVisible = !isVisible )">Toggle the Window</TelerikButton>

<TelerikWindow Visible="@isVisible" VisibleChanged="@VisibleChangedHandler">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>The Title</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowContent>
        Try closing the window with the [x] button on its toolbar, then toggle the checkbox and try again.
        <br />
        <label>
            The user can close the window with the [x] button:
            <TelerikCheckBox @bind-Value="@isClosable" />
        </label>
    </WindowContent>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Close" />
    </WindowActions>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    bool isVisible { get; set; } = true;
    bool isClosable { get; set; }

    void VisibleChangedHandler(bool currVisible)
    {
        if (isClosable)
        {
            isVisible = currVisible; // if you don't do this, the window won't close because of the user action
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("The user tried to close the window but the code didn't let them");
        }

    }
}
````

>note The `VisibleChanged` event will fire when the window is being disposed. At this stage of the framework lifecycle, it cannot know if it is open or not, and so we explicitly close it and free-up the resources it uses.

## StateChanged

You can use the `StateChanged` event to get notifications when the user tries to minimize, maximize or restore the window. You can effectively cancel the event by *not* propagating the new state to the variable the `State` property is bound to.

>caption React to the user actions to minimize, restore or maximize the window

````CSHTML
@lastUserAction

<select @bind=@State>
    <option value=@WindowState.Default>Default</option>
    <option value=@WindowState.Minimized>Minimized</option>
    <option value=@WindowState.Maximized>Maximized</option>
</select>

<TelerikWindow State="@State" StateChanged="@StateChangedHandler" Width="500px" Height="300px" Visible="true"
               Top="500px" Left="600px">
    <WindowTitle>
        <strong>Lorem ipsum</strong>
    </WindowTitle>
    <WindowActions>
        <WindowAction Name="Minimize"></WindowAction>
        <WindowAction Name="Maximize"></WindowAction>
        <WindowAction Name="Close"></WindowAction>
    </WindowActions>
    <WindowContent>
        <select @bind=@State>
            <option value=@WindowState.Default>Default</option>
            <option value=@WindowState.Minimized>Minimized</option>
            <option value=@WindowState.Maximized>Maximized</option>
        </select>
    </WindowContent>
</TelerikWindow>

@code {
    public WindowState State { get; set; } = WindowState.Default;

    string lastUserAction;

    private void StateChangedHandler(WindowState windowState)
    {
        State = windowState; // if you don't do this, the window won't change because of the user action

        lastUserAction = $"last user action was: {windowState}";
    }
}
````

## Action Click

Actions expose the `OnClick` event. You can use it to implement custom buttons that invoke application logic from the Window's titlebar. See the [Window Actions]({%slug components/window/actions%}) article for examples.

If you use the `OnClick` event on a built-in action, it will act as a custom action and it will no longer perform the built-in feature (for example, close the window). If you want the invoke both a built-in action and custom logic from the same button, you have two options:

* Use the [VisibleChanged](#visiblechanged) and/or the [StateChanged](#statechanged) events to execute the custom logic on the user actions.
* Or, use two-way binding for the corresponding Window parameter (e.g., `@bind-Visible`, or `@bind-State`) and toggle its variable from the custom `OnClick` handler.

## See Also

  * [Window Overview]({%slug components/window/overview%})
  * [Window State]({%slug components/window/size%})
  * [Window Actions]({%slug components/window/actions%})
