components/numerictextbox/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Numeric Textbox for Blazor Overview
description: Overview of the Numeric Textbox for Blazor
slug: components/numerictextbox/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,numeric textbox,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Numeric Textbox Overview

The Numeric Textbox component allows the user to enter decimal values and no text. The developer can control minimum, maximum values, steps and other elements of the UX.

To use a Telerik Numeric Textbox for Blazor, add the `TelerikNumericTextBox` tag.

>caption Basic numeric textbox with its key features

````CSHTML
The new value is: @theValue

<TelerikNumericTextBox Format="C" Max="5m" Min="-5m" Step="0.33m" @bind-Value="@theValue"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

@code {
     private decimal theValue { get; set; } = 1.234m;
}
````

The numeric textbox component is generic, meaning that it takes the type of its value parameter as an argument. It can take `int`, `long`, `float`, `double` and `decimal` values. Therefore, the values for the `Min`, `Max` and `Step` properties must be of the same type as the `Value`, and the `ValueChanged` handler must also accommodate the corresponding value type.

>caption Component namespace and reference

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components

<TelerikNumericTextBox @ref="myNumericTextboxRef" @bind-Value="CurrentValue"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

@code {
	//determines the type of the component
	private int CurrentValue { get; set; }
	
	//the type of the value variable determines the type of the reference
	private Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikNumericTextBox<int> myNumericTextboxRef;
}
````

The numeric textbox provides the following features:

* `Arrows` - whether the up/down spinner arrows (buttons) will be shown. Defaults to `true`.
* `Decimals` - how many decimal places will be allowed while the user is typing a new value. Takes effect only while the input is focused.
* `Format` - the format with which the number is presented when the input is not focused. Read more in the [Standard Numeric Format Strings in .NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-numeric-format-strings) article.
* `Max` - the maximum decimal value the input can take. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Min` - the minimum decimal value the input can take. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Step` - the decimal value of the step with which the value changes when the arrows are used. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Text` - getter for the original user input.
* `Value` - to get/set the value of the input.
* Validation - see the [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%}) article.

>caption Example of using a custom format string

````CSHTML
<TelerikNumericTextBox Format="#.00 kg" Max="5m" Min="-5m" Step="0.33m" Value="3.456789m"></TelerikNumericTextBox>
````

>note If you want to use a currency format, you must specify a culture on the thread, so .NET knows what symbol to render. If you don't do that, you may see an unexpected/incorrect symbol or format.

>caption To use currency format, set Thread culture in Startup.cs

````C#
namespace MyBlazorApp.Client
{
    public class Startup
    {
        public Startup()
        {
            //set culture to the thread to let .NET render a currency symbol
            System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture = new System.Globalization.CultureInfo("en-US");
        }
        
        //the rest of the file
    }
}
````

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/index)
  * [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox Validation](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/validation)
  [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox Formats](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/formats)
  * [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%})

Commit message:

docs(numericTextBox): localization, separators, cultures

components/numerictextbox/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Numeric Textbox for Blazor Overview
description: Overview of the Numeric Textbox for Blazor
slug: components/numerictextbox/overview
tags: telerik,blazor,numeric textbox,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Numeric Textbox Overview

The Numeric Textbox component allows the user to enter decimal values and no text. The developer can control minimum, maximum values, steps and other elements of the UX.

To use a Telerik Numeric Textbox for Blazor, add the `TelerikNumericTextBox` tag.

>caption Basic numeric textbox with its key features

````CSHTML
The new value is: @theValue

<TelerikNumericTextBox Format="C" Max="5m" Min="-5m" Step="0.33m" @bind-Value="@theValue"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

@code {
     private decimal theValue { get; set; } = 1.234m;
}
````

The numeric textbox component is generic, meaning that it takes the type of its value parameter as an argument. It can take `int`, `long`, `float`, `double` and `decimal` values. Therefore, the values for the `Min`, `Max` and `Step` properties must be of the same type as the `Value`, and the `ValueChanged` handler must also accommodate the corresponding value type.

>caption Component namespace and reference

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components

<TelerikNumericTextBox @ref="myNumericTextboxRef" @bind-Value="CurrentValue"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

@code {
	//determines the type of the component
	private int CurrentValue { get; set; }
	
	//the type of the value variable determines the type of the reference
	private Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikNumericTextBox<int> myNumericTextboxRef;
}
````

The numeric textbox provides the following features:

* `Arrows` - whether the up/down spinner arrows (buttons) will be shown. Defaults to `true`.
* `Decimals` - how many decimal places will be allowed while the user is typing a new value. Takes effect only while the input is focused.
* `Format` - the format with which the number is presented when the input is not focused. Read more in the [Standard Numeric Format Strings in .NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-numeric-format-strings) article.
* `Max` - the maximum decimal value the input can take. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Min` - the minimum decimal value the input can take. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Step` - the decimal value of the step with which the value changes when the arrows are used. Must be of the same type as the `Value`.
* `Text` - getter for the original user input.
* `Value` - to get/set the value of the input.
* Validation - see the [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%}) article.

>caption Example of using a custom format string

````CSHTML
<TelerikNumericTextBox Format="#.00 kg" Max="5m" Min="-5m" Step="0.33m" Value="3.456789m"></TelerikNumericTextBox>
````

>important The decimal separator is `.` for the time being. When localization features get implemented in the Telerik UI for Blazor suite, it will be possible to take it from the current thread culture. This means that cultures with a differet separator may not funcion correctly. Currency symbols are also rendered by the framework and they come from the current culture as well.

<!--
>note If you want to use a currency format, you must specify a culture on the thread, so .NET knows what symbol to render. If you don't do that, you may see an unexpected/incorrect symbol or format.

>caption To use currency format, set Thread culture in Startup.cs

````C#
namespace MyBlazorApp.Client
{
    public class Startup
    {
        public Startup()
        {
            //set culture to the thread to let .NET render a currency symbol
            System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture = new System.Globalization.CultureInfo("en-US");
        }
        
        //the rest of the file
    }
}
````

-->

## See Also

  * [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/index)
  * [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox Validation](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/validation)
  [Live Demo: Numeric Textbox Formats](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/numerictextbox/formats)
  * [Input Validation]({%slug common-features/input-validation%})
